<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 91 Issue 78 (Thursday, April 23, 2026)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 91, Number 78 (Thursday, April 23, 2026)]
[Notices]
[Pages 21790-21794]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2026-07987]


-----------------------------------------------------------------------

DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

International Trade Administration

[Docket No. 260420-0105]
RIN 0625-XC061


Procedures for Submissions by Certain Steel and Aluminum 
Producers Committing to New U.S. Steel or Aluminum Production To Obtain 
Tariff Adjustments Under Proclamation 10984

AGENCY: International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of 
Commerce.

ACTION: Notice announcing procedures for seeking tariff adjustments 
under Proclamation 10984.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: In Presidential Proclamation 10984 of October 17, 2025 
(Adjusting Imports of Medium- and Heavy-Duty Vehicles, Medium- and 
Heavy-Duty Vehicle Parts, and Buses Into the United States), the 
President imposed additional tariffs on imports of specified medium- 
and heavy-duty vehicles (MHDVs), medium- and heavy-duty vehicles parts 
(MHDVPs), and buses to eliminate the threat to national security posed 
by such imports. That Proclamation also authorized the Secretary of 
Commerce to reduce tariffs owed under Proclamation 9704 of March 8, 
2018 (Adjusting Imports of Aluminum Into the United States) as amended, 
and Proclamation 9705 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into 
the United States) as amended, for certain steel and aluminum producers 
operating production facilities in Canada or Mexico, based on newly 
committed U.S. production capacity. This notice establishes procedures 
for submission and review of documentation substantiating new U.S. 
production capacity commitments and eligibility for adjusted tariffs by 
the Department of Commerce.

DATES: Eligible steel and aluminum producers may submit documentation 
as of April 23, 2026.

[[Page 21791]]


ADDRESSES: Documentation must be submitted electronically to: 
<a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#6c0d0806191f18010902182c181e0d0809420b031a"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="1776737d6264637a72796357636576737239707861">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Emily Davis, Director for Public 
Affairs, International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of 
Commerce, 202-482-3809, <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#0c496165607522486d7a657f4c787e6d6869226b637a"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="c683abafaabfe882a7b0afb586b2b4a7a2a3e8a1a9b0">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

I. Background

    On October 17, 2025, the President issued Proclamation 10984 
(Adjusting Imports of Medium- and Heavy-Duty Vehicles, Medium- and 
Heavy-Duty Vehicle Parts, and Buses Into the United States) (90 FR 
48451), finding that imports of medium- and heavy-duty vehicles 
(MHDVs), medium- and heavy-duty vehicle parts (MHDVPs), and buses 
threaten to impair the national security of the United States, and 
determining that it is necessary and appropriate to impose specified 
tariffs to adjust imports of MHDVs, MHDVPs, and buses so that such 
imports will not threaten to impair national security pursuant to 
section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 
1862). In addition, Proclamation 10984 acknowledged the close 
connections and overlap between part suppliers for the automobile 
industry and for the MHDV industry, and determined that it is necessary 
and appropriate to conform certain aspects of the tariff system imposed 
in Proclamation 10908 of March 26, 2025 (Adjusting Imports of 
Automobiles and Automobile Parts Into the United States) (90 FR 14705), 
as amended, with the tariff system imposed in Proclamation 10984 for 
MHDVs, certain MHDVPs, and buses. Finally, the President found it 
necessary and appropriate to allow modification of tariffs imposed 
under Proclamation 9704 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Aluminum 
Into the United States) (83 FR 11619), as amended, and Proclamation 
9705 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United 
States) (83 FR 11625), as amended, based on commitments to increase 
production of steel or aluminum products that support U.S. production 
capacity of key products, including U.S. automobiles and MHDVs.
    To enhance the supply chain security and domestic production of 
U.S. MHDVs and automobiles, Proclamation 10984 authorized the Secretary 
to reduce tariffs owed under Proclamations 9704 and 9705 by up to half 
the otherwise applicable rate for aluminum or steel producers that 
operate production facilities in Canada or Mexico and supply U.S. 
automobile or MHDV manufacturers. Such adjustments are to be limited to 
quantities of aluminum or steel equal to newly committed U.S. 
production capacity, as determined by the Secretary.
    Proclamation 10984 provides that the adjusted tariff rate under 
Proclamations 9704 and 9705 may be no less than 25 percent, and that 
the adjusted tariff rate is only available for imports of aluminum and 
steel that qualify for preferential tariff treatment under the U.S.-
Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) and that were respectively smelted and 
cast or melted and poured in Canada or Mexico.
    Proclamation 10984 directed the Secretary to administer this 
program in a manner consistent with the need to address the national 
security threats the President found in Proclamation 9704, Proclamation 
9705, Proclamation 9888 of May 17, 2019 (Adjusting Imports of 
Automobiles and Automobile Parts Into the United States) (84 FR 23433), 
and Proclamation 10984. The Secretary has determined that it is 
necessary to establish a process for firms that operate production 
facilities in Canada and Mexico to apply for the adjusted tariffs, as 
authorized in Proclamation 10984, based on the quantities of aluminum 
or steel equal to newly committed U.S. production capacity. The 
Secretary has determined that only commitments to increase production 
of primary steel and primary aluminum should be eligible because these 
commitments address key bottlenecks and will increase the supply of 
U.S. steel and aluminum for downstream producers of automobiles and 
MHDVs. For purposes of these procedures, ``primary steel'' refers to 
steel articles that are produced in a basic oxygen furnace, electric 
arc furnace, or any other steel making furnace in the United States and 
``primary aluminum'' means aluminum articles that are produced in a 
smelter in the United States.
    The Secretary has also determined that, for purposes of these 
procedures, commitments to increase production capacity of primary 
steel and primary aluminum that supports U.S. production capacity of 
key products should be limited to commitments to increase U.S. capacity 
of primary steel and primary aluminum that supports U.S. production 
capacity for automobiles, MHDVs, automobile parts, and MHDV parts 
(MHDVPs). Proclamation 10984 identifies automobiles and MHDVs as 
examples of key products. As automobile parts and MHDVPs are critical 
inputs to MHDVs and automobiles, and as much of the steel and aluminum 
contained in automobiles and MHDVs is first incorporated into 
automobile parts and MHDVPs, the Secretary determined that automobile 
parts and MHDVPs are also ``key products'' under these procedures, 
consistent with the purpose of Proclamation 10984.

I. Eligibility

    Only applicants that produce steel or aluminum in Canada or Mexico 
and that supply, directly or indirectly (through incorporation into 
parts), to U.S. producers of automobiles or MHDVs are eligible for 
tariff adjustment based on new production commitments (Qualified 
Companies). Only new production commitments from Qualified Companies 
that will expand U.S. primary steel and primary aluminum production 
capacity for key products (automobiles and automobile parts and MHDVs 
and MHDVPs) are eligible for consideration under these procedures 
(Qualifying Commitments). Only imports of steel and aluminum that 
qualify for preferential tariff treatment under the USMCA and that were 
melted and poured or smelted and cast in Mexico or Canada are eligible 
for a tariff adjustment (Qualifying Imports). Any tariff adjustment 
granted pursuant to these procedures will be limited to quantities of 
Qualifying Imports equal to the projected annual new production 
capacity, as determined by the Department. Tariff adjustment will be 
limited to a fixed period of time, as determined by the Department, 
that reflects the resources committed, the national security benefits 
of the commitment, the commercially reasonable time period necessary to 
complete the project and begin production using the new capacity, and 
any other factor the Department considers appropriate.

II. Opportunity To Submit Documentation

    Qualified Companies making Qualifying Commitments may submit 
documentation, on a project-by-project basis, outlining their proposed 
investment plan, including the proposed location, production details, 
proposed capacity, and milestone commitments.
    Each submission should include documentation certified by an 
applicant's Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel, or an equivalent-
level of senior officer that provides the following:
    1. An explanation of the applicant's status as a Qualifying 
Company, including locations, volumes, and product types of existing 
production of steel or aluminum in Canada or Mexico,

[[Page 21792]]

and U.S. automobile and MHDV manufacturers to whom the applicant 
directly or indirectly (through incorporation into parts) supplies 
steel or aluminum and the volumes supplied.
    2. An overview of the proposed project, including project 
background information, project objectives, proposed location(s) of the 
project, any progress to date, and an explanation of the applicant's 
engagement with local authorities on the project, including economic 
incentives and permitting.
    3. Details about the proposed production that will occur as a 
result of the project, including:
    a. Details on the kind of primary steel and/or primary aluminum 
that will be produced at the facility, including the applicable North 
American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code, the Harmonized 
Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) code that would apply to 
the product if it were imported into the United States, and a written 
description of the steel or aluminum product;
    b. The U.S. key product(s) (automobiles, automobile parts, MHDVs, 
and MHDV parts) production capacity that will be supported, directly or 
indirectly, by the production resulting from the project;
    c. The projected annual primary steel or primary aluminum 
production capacity that will result from the project;
    d. A list of suppliers (or potential suppliers) for production 
equipment for the project, including contracts that have been entered 
into and quotes or estimates that have been provided by potential 
suppliers;
    e. A list of construction contractors (or potential contractors) 
that will be involved in executing the project, including contracts 
that have been entered into and quotes or estimates that have been 
provided by potential suppliers;
    f. A list of raw materials that will be needed to support 
production under the project, including known or expected suppliers and 
any contracts that have been entered into and quotes or estimates that 
have been provided by potential suppliers; and
    g. A narrative explanation of how the applicant will increase 
hiring to staff the new project.
    4. Milestones that the applicant commits to meeting in order to 
obtain and retain a tariff adjustment and the company's expectation 
regarding anticipated completion of the project.
    a. Applicants are required to provide targets for the following 
mandatory milestones:
    i. Purchase of land;
    ii. Completion of facility design;
    iii. Hiring construction team or construction contractors;
    iv. Construction start date;
    v. Purchase of equipment;
    vi. Delivery and installation of equipment; and
    vii. Completion of construction and production first heat.
    b. Applicants may also provide targets for additional, optional 
milestones, including:
    i. Award of significant construction contract(s);
    ii. Award of significant engineering contract(s);
    iii. Permitting application submission;
    iv. Permitting award;
    v. Finalizing financing agreements;
    vi. Hiring engineers; and
    vii. Equipment certification.
    5. A project management plan that details how the applicant will 
hire and manage the team(s) in charge of key aspects of the project, 
including engineering, equipment supply, and other relevant activities 
necessary to complete the project. This plan shall include the 
estimated cost of construction, engineering, and equipment necessary 
for the proposed project, as well as any other significant costs the 
applicant expects to incur as part of completing the proposed project.
    6. A commitment to provide the Department with quarterly reports 
that detail the applicant's progress towards the milestones and project 
management plan, as well as details on the costs-to-date incurred by 
the applicant in executing the project. The applicant will use this 
quarterly report to notify the Department of any proposed changes to 
the milestones.
    7. A statement that the applicant recognizes that substantially 
meeting the milestones set forth in its submission is necessary for 
continued eligibility for the tariff adjustment and that, if it does 
not substantially meet its Qualifying Commitments, the liquidation or 
reliquidation of entries with the imposition of outstanding tariffs on 
prior entries that used the tariff adjustment may result. Tariff 
adjustments may be paused by the Department on a quarterly basis should 
the Department determine that the applicant is not substantially 
meeting milestones. Moreover, failure to provide requested information 
and significant delays that are within the applicant's control and that 
threaten a project's timely completion may result in a determination by 
the Department that the applicant has failed to substantially meet its 
Qualifying Commitment, resulting in termination of eligibility and a 
requirement that the Qualifying Company take all necessary action to 
pay duties that would otherwise have been owed on previous entries of 
Qualifying Imports. The applicant is required to provide information 
requested by the Department and to provide the Department with access 
to information needed to verify the accuracy of the application and to 
ensure compliance with Qualifying Commitments. Failure to do so may be 
treated as a failure to substantially meet Qualifying Commitments, and 
may result in the Department directing CBP to reliquidate entries at 
the duty rate that would apply without any tariff adjustment.
    8. The name and importer of record number of the importer 
responsible for importing steel or aluminum into the United States 
under the tariff adjustment on behalf of the applicant. The applicant 
may only designate a single representative.

III. Review Process

    The Department will review each submission for completeness, 
commercial practicalities (i.e., whether it is a bona fide and facially 
legitimate proposal), and compliance with these procedures. The 
Department may request supplemental documentation or clarification as 
necessary.
    Upon a determination by the Department that a submission is 
complete, is commercially practicable, and is consistent with these 
procedures, the Department will notify U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection (CBP) of its determinations, the effective date that tariff 
adjustments will begin, and of the quantity of Qualifying Imports that 
is eligible for the tariff adjustment each quarter. The Department will 
provide CBP with the importer authorized by the Department to access 
this adjustment, including importer name and importer of record number. 
Once the Department notifies CBP that a Qualified Company is eligible 
for a tariff adjustment, the Qualified Company may through its 
designated importer of record begin importing Qualifying Imports 
subject to an additional tariff of 25% under Proclamation 9704, as 
amended, or Proclamation 9705, as amended, subject to the quarterly 
quantitative limit established by the Department.
    As outlined in Section III.6, the applicant shall provide the 
Department with updates on a quarterly basis for each project, 
including whether milestones have been met. The Department may, at its 
discretion, request access to supporting documentation including the 
applicant's relevant books and records

[[Page 21793]]

to ensure compliance and evaluate progress towards milestones.
    If any developments impact or are reasonably expected to impact the 
Qualified Company's ability to meet milestones, the Qualified Company 
must promptly inform the Department, in the quarterly report outlined 
above.

IV. Documentation To Be Provided After Approval

    Once a Qualified Company's application is approved and the 
Qualified Company begins to enter Qualified Imports eligible for tariff 
adjustments, the Qualified Company must provide the following 
information to the Department on a quarterly basis:
    1. For steel:
    a. A letter, certified by the Qualified Company's Chief Financial 
Officer, General Counsel, or an equivalent-level of senior officer, 
summarizing the total shipments, volume, and value of Qualified Imports 
entered during the quarter and the location of the facilities producing 
the Qualified Imports claiming tariff adjustment.
    b. An Excel spreadsheet and/or certified .pdf with detailed 
information on all shipments of Qualified Imports claiming tariff 
adjustment. Each listed shipment of Qualified Imports should include 
the country of origin, volume, value, HTSUS classification, and entry 
number with accompanying mill test certificates which state the country 
and facility of melt and pour and for each listed heat number.
    2. For aluminum:
    a. A letter, certified by the Qualified Company's Chief Financial 
Officer, General Counsel, or an equivalent-level of senior officer, 
summarizing the total shipments, volume, and value of Qualified Imports 
entered during the quarter and the location of the facilities producing 
the Qualified Imports.
    b. An Excel spreadsheet and certified .pdf with detailed 
information on all shipments of Qualified Imports claiming tariff 
adjustment. Each listed shipment of Qualified Imports should include 
the country and facility of smelt, the country and facility of most 
recent cast, the country of origin, the value and volume of the article 
of aluminum, products, HTSUS classification, and a customs entry number 
for the import.

Qualified Companies must provide this information to the Department on 
a quarterly basis. A failure to provide the information in this Section 
will be considered a failure to substantially meet the milestones.

V. Consequences for Substantial Noncompliance With Milestones

    If the Department determines that a Qualified Company has not 
substantially met the milestones set forth in its commitments, the 
Department will inform CBP that the Qualified Company is no longer 
eligible to receive quarterly tariff adjustments. If the Qualified 
Company returns to substantially meeting with the milestones, it shall 
inform the Department and--if the Department concurs--the Department 
will promptly inform CBP that the Qualified Company again may receive 
quarterly tariff adjustments and that Qualified Imports entered during 
the period after the Department halted quarterly tariff adjustments are 
retroactively eligible for such adjustments.
    If the Department determines that a Qualified Company has failed to 
substantially meet its Qualifying Commitment, the Department will 
promptly inform CBP that previous entries of Qualifying Imports must 
be, as appropriate, either liquidated or reliquidated as no longer 
eligible for the tariff adjustment and subject to all applicable 
tariffs.

VI. Confidential Business Information

    Submissions containing confidential business information must be 
clearly marked as such.

VII. Authority

    This notice is issued pursuant to the authority delegated to the 
Secretary by Proclamation 10984 consistent with section 232 of the 
Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862).

VIII. Amendment to the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States 
(HTSUS)

    Proclamation 10984 authorized the Secretary, in consultation with 
the Chair of the United States International Trade Commission and CBP, 
to determine the modifications necessary to the HTSUS to effectuate 
that proclamation and to make such modifications to the HTSUS through 
notice in the Federal Register. Accordingly, the HTSUS is modified as 
provided for in the Annex to this Notice.

IX. Paperwork Reduction Act

    A Federal agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not 
required to respond to, nor shall a person be subject to a penalty for 
failure to comply with an information collection subject to the 
requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et 
seq.) unless the information collection has a currently valid OMB 
Control Number. The approved OMB Control Number for this information 
collection is 0625-0285. Without this approval, we could not conduct 
this information collection. Public reporting for this information 
collection is estimated to be approximately 60 hours per response, 
including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data 
sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and 
reviewing the information collection. All responses to this information 
collection are voluntary. Send comments regarding this burden estimate 
or any other aspect of this information collection, including 
suggestions for reducing this burden to the International Trade 
Administration Paperwork Reduction Act Program: <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#047476654470766560612a636b72"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="bcccceddfcc8ceddd8d992dbd3ca">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>.

William Kimmitt,
Under Secretary for International Trade, United States Department of 
Commerce.

Annex

    Effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or 
withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. 
eastern standard time on April 23, 2026, subchapter III of chapter 99 
of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) is 
modified as follows:
    1. U.S. note 16 is modified by adding the following new subdivision 
(h):
    ``(h) Heading 9903.82.18 applies to limited quantities of articles 
of steel described in subdivision (c)(iii) of this note that: (1) were 
melted and poured in Canada or Mexico; (2) qualify for preferential 
treatment under the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, as provided 
in general note 11 of the HTSUS; and (3) are authorized by the 
Secretary of Commerce as eligible for a tariff reduction under this 
heading pursuant to clause 13 of Presidential Proclamation 10984 of 
October 17, 2025. Proclamation 10984 authorized the Secretary of 
Commerce to reduce the applicable rate of duty for limited quantities 
of articles of steel imported by steel producers that operate 
production facilities in Canada or Mexico and that supply steel to U.S. 
manufacturers of automobiles, medium- and heavy-duty vehicles, 
automobile parts, and medium- and heavy-duty vehicle parts.
    Any importer entering an article of steel covered by this note 
under heading 9903.82.18 shall provide any information that may be 
required, and in such form, as is deemed necessary by U.S. Customs and 
Border Protection in order to permit the administration of this 
heading.''

[[Page 21794]]

    2. U.S. note 16 is modified by adding the following new subdivision 
(i):
    ``(i) Heading 9903.82.19 applies to limited quantities of articles 
of aluminum described in subdivision (c)(i) of this note that: (1) were 
smelted and cast in Canada or Mexico; (2) qualify for preferential 
treatment under the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, as provided 
in general note 11 of the HTSUS; and (3) are authorized by the 
Secretary of Commerce as eligible for a tariff reduction under this 
heading pursuant to clause 13 of Presidential Proclamation 10984 or 
October 17, 2025. Proclamation 10984 authorized the Secretary of 
Commerce to reduce the applicable rate of duty for certain quantities 
of aluminum imported by aluminum producers that operate production 
facilities in Canada or Mexico and supply aluminum to U.S. 
manufacturers of automobiles, medium- and heavy-duty vehicles, 
automobile parts, and medium- and heavy-duty vehicle parts.
    Any importer entering an article of aluminum covered by this note 
under heading 9903.82.19 shall provide any information that may be 
required, and in such form, as is deemed necessary by U.S. Customs and 
Border Protection in order to permit the administration of this 
heading.''
    3. Subdivision (aa)(v)(1) of U.S. note 2 is modified by deleting 
``99903.82.04-9903.82.17'' and inserting ``9903.82.04-9903.82.19'' in 
lieu thereof.
    4. Subdivision (a) of U.S. note 16 is modified by deleting 
``headings 9903.82.02- 9903.82.17'' and inserting ``headings 
9903.82.02-9903.82.19'' in lieu thereof.
    5. Subdivision (b) of U.S. note 16 is modified by deleting 
``9903.82.02-9903.82.17'' and inserting ``9903.82.02-9903.82.19'' in 
lieu thereof.
    6. Subdivision (c) of U.S. note 16 is modified by deleting 
``9903.82.02-9903.82.17'' and inserting ``9903.82.02-9903.82.19'' in 
lieu thereof.
    7. U.S. note 33 modified by deleting ``9903.82.04-9903.82.17'' in 
each place it appears and inserting ``9903.82.04-9903.82.19'' in lieu 
thereof.
    8. U.S. note 38 is modified by deleting ``9903.82.04-9903.82.17'' 
in each place it appears and inserting ``9903.82.04-9903.82.19'' in 
lieu thereof.
    9. Subdivision (a) of U.S. note 39 is modified by deleting 
``9903.82.04-9903.82.17'' and inserting ``9903.82.04-9903.82.19'' in 
lieu thereof.
    10. The following new headings are inserted in numerical sequence, 
with the material in each new heading inserted in the columns of the 
HTSUS labeled ``Heading/Subheading'', ``Article Description'', ``Rates 
of Duty 1-General'', ``Rates of Duty 1-Special'' and ``Rates of Duty 
2'', respectively:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                              Rates of duty
                                                                                ------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Heading/subheading                      Article description                                    1
                                                                                -------------------------------------------------            2
                                                                                         General                  Special
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
``9903.82.18........................  Certain articles of steel, as provided     no change..............  The duty provided in    no change.
                                       for in subdivisions (c)(iii) and (h) of                             the applicable
                                       U.S. note 16 to this subchapter . . .                               subheading + 25%.
9903.82.19..........................  Certain articles of aluminum, as provided  no change..............  The duty provided in    no change.
                                       for in subdivision (c)(i) and                                       the applicable
                                       subdivision (i) of U.S. note 16 to this                             subheading + 25%.
                                       subchapter . . .
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[FR Doc. 2026-07987 Filed 4-22-26; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 3510-DS-P


</pre><script data-cfasync="false" src="/cdn-cgi/scripts/5c5dd728/cloudflare-static/email-decode.min.js"></script></body>
</html>
