<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 90 Issue 136 (Friday, July 18, 2025)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 90, Number 136 (Friday, July 18, 2025)]
[Notices]
[Pages 34069-34072]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2025-13498]



[[Page 34069]]

=======================================================================
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE

[Docket No. USTR-2025-0043]


Initiation of Section 301 Investigation: Brazil's Acts, Policies, 
and Practices Related to Digital Trade and Electronic Payment Services; 
Unfair, Preferential Tariffs; Anti-Corruption Enforcement; Intellectual 
Property Protection; Ethanol Market Access; and Illegal Deforestation; 
Hearing; and Request for Public Comments

AGENCY: Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR).

ACTION: Notice of initiation of investigation and a hearing, and a 
request for comments.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: In accordance with the specific direction of the President, on 
July 15, 2025 the U.S. Trade Representative initiated an investigation 
into Brazil's acts, policies, and practices related to digital trade 
and electronic payment services; unfair, preferential tariffs; anti-
corruption enforcement; intellectual property protection; ethanol 
market access; and illegal deforestation. The Section 301 Committee is 
holding a public hearing and seeking public comments in connection with 
this investigation.

DATES: 
    July 15, 2025: The U.S. Trade Representative initiated the 
investigation.
    July 17, 2025: USTR will open the docket for submission of written 
comments.
    August 18, 2025, at 11:59 p.m. EDT: To be assured of consideration, 
submit written comments, requests to appear at the hearing, along with 
a summary of the testimony, by this date.
    September 3, 2025, at 10.00 a.m.: USTR will hold a public hearing 
in the main hearing room of the U.S. International Trade Commission, 
500 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20436, beginning at 10 a.m. If 
necessary, the hearing may continue on the next business day.
    Seven calendar days after the last day of the public hearing: Due 
date for submission of post-hearing rebuttal comments.

ADDRESSES: Submit documents in response to this notice, including 
written comments, hearing appearance requests, summaries of testimony, 
and post-hearing rebuttal comments through the online USTR portal: 
<a href="https://comments.ustr.gov/s/">https://comments.ustr.gov/s/</a>.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For general questions about this 
notice contact Philip Butler and Megan Grimball, Chairs of the Section 
301 Committee; or Megan Paster, Assistant General Counsel at 
202.395.5725.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

I. Brazil's Acts, Policies, and Practices

    The Section 301 investigation will initially focus on the issue 
areas discussed below.

A. Digital Trade and Electronic Payment Services

    Evidence indicates that Brazil engages in a variety of acts, 
policies, and practices that may undermine the competitiveness of U.S. 
companies engaged in digital trade and electronic payment services. For 
example, the Brazilian Supreme Court recently voted to make social 
media companies liable for illegal postings by their users, even absent 
a court order to remove that content, but includes within the scope of 
such ``illegal'' postings a broad range of speech, including political 
speech. This regime could trigger the preemptive takedown of content 
and restrictions on a wide array of speech, as well as significantly 
increase the risk of economic harm to U.S. social media companies. 
Additionally, Brazilian courts have issued secret orders instructing 
U.S. social media companies to censor thousands of posts and de-
platform dozens of political critics, including U.S. persons, for 
lawful speech on U.S. soil. When U.S. and U.S.-headquartered companies 
have refused to comply with these orders, Brazilian courts have imposed 
substantial fines on U.S. and U.S.-headquartered companies, ordered the 
suspension of U.S. and U.S.-headquartered platforms in Brazil, and 
threatened U.S. and U.S.-headquartered company executives with arrest 
or criminal prosecution.
    More generally, evidence indicates that these acts, policies, and 
practices may undermine the competitiveness of U.S. companies engaged 
in digital trade and electronic payment services, for example, by 
raising risks or costs for U.S. businesses, restricting the ability of 
U.S. companies to provide services or engage in normal business 
practices, decreasing the revenue and returns on investments of those 
U.S. companies, assigning increased regulatory burdens and compliance 
costs on those U.S. companies, or creating advantages for domestic 
Brazilian competitors.
    For example, Brazil imposes overly broad restrictions on the 
transfer of personal data outside Brazil, including to the United 
States, that may not adequately account for routine business purposes. 
These restrictions may prevent a business from securely processing data 
or providing services from U.S. servers. Additionally, Brazil also 
appears to engage in a number of unfair practices with respect to 
electronic payment services, including but not limited to advantaging 
its government-developed electronic payment services.

B. Brazil's Unfair, Preferential Tariffs

    Brazil has lowered tariffs on an unfair, preferential basis by 
entering into partial-scope preferential trade arrangements with 
certain large trading partners, while disadvantaging the United States 
by applying higher tariffs to U.S. imports. Under these arrangements, 
Brazil accords lower, preferential tariff treatment only to certain 
large trading partners in specific sectors, including sectors in which 
these trading partners are globally competitive. At the same time, 
Brazil maintains high most-favored nation (MFN) tariffs that apply to 
U.S. exports. In 2024, Brazil had a 12.2 percent simple average MFN 
applied rate, compared to the United States' 3.3 percent simple average 
MFN rate.
    In particular, Brazil accords to India and Mexico preferential 
tariff treatment that it does not accord to the United States. This 
preferential treatment covers thousands of tariff lines for Mexico and 
hundreds of tariff lines for India at tariff rates that are between 10 
and 100 percent lower than Brazil's MFN rate. This preferential 
treatment applies to hundreds of products across multiple sectors, such 
as agricultural products, motor vehicles and parts, minerals, 
chemicals, and machinery. In 2023, Brazil imported approximately $5.5 
billion in imports at these preferential tariff rates--$4.6 billion 
from Mexico and $1.0 billion from India. Products covered by 
preferential tariffs included nearly $1.7 billion in motor vehicles and 
motor vehicle parts from Mexico. Nearly all of Brazil's imports of 
motor vehicles and parts from Mexico were subject to no tariffs, while 
Brazil's imports of these products from the United States were subject 
to MFN rates, almost all of which are between 14 and 35 percent.
    Brazil accords this preferential treatment pursuant to bilateral 
agreements with large trading partners covering only discrete sectors. 
In 2024, Brazil's gross domestic product (GDP) exceeded $2.1 trillion, 
and it imported over $274 billion of goods and exported over $339 
billion. In 2024, Mexico exported $617.8 billion of goods, and India 
exported over $447 billion. Furthermore, Brazil, Mexico, and India are 
already advanced and globally competitive in many of the sectors

[[Page 34070]]

covered by preferential tariff treatment. For example, Mexico is one of 
the largest global vehicle producers, and India is one of the world's 
leading chemical producers. Nonetheless, Mexican vehicles and Indian 
chemicals receive preferential tariff treatment from Brazil while U.S. 
vehicles and chemicals are subject to Brazil's MFN rate.
    When Brazil applies lower tariffs on goods of other large and 
competitive economies, while continuing to subject U.S. goods to its 
high, MFN rates, U.S. exports are denied a level playing field in 
Brazil's market. This can suppress U.S. exports and economic output, 
with negative consequences for employment and domestic production.

C. Anti-Corruption Enforcement

    Evidence suggests that Brazil's efforts to fight corruption have 
weakened considerably in some areas. For example, reports indicate that 
prosecutors have engaged in opaque agreements to provide leniency to 
companies engaged in corruption and indicate conflicts of interest in 
judicial decisions. In a highly publicized case involving the bribery 
of public officials for public projects and money laundering, rulings 
by a Supreme Court justice to throw out the convictions have drawn 
widespread criticism. Evidence indicates that Brazil's lack of 
enforcement of anti-corruption measures and lack of transparency may 
disadvantage U.S. companies engaged in trade and investment in Brazil 
and raises concerns in relation to norms relating to fighting bribery 
and corruption, such as under Protocol to the Agreement on Trade and 
Economic Cooperation Between the Government of the United States of 
America and the Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil 
Relating to Trade Rules and Transparency, Annex III or the Convention 
on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International 
Business Transactions, done at Paris, December 19, 1997.

D. Intellectual Property Protection

    Brazil engages in a variety of acts, policies, and practices that 
apparently deny adequate and effective protection and enforcement of 
intellectual property rights. For example, Brazil has failed to 
effectively address widespread importation, distribution, sale, and use 
of counterfeit goods, modified gaming consoles, illicit streaming 
devices, and other circumvention devices. Counterfeiting remains 
widespread because enforcement raids are not followed by deterrent-
level remedies or penalties and long-term disruption of these illicit 
business practices. The Rua 25 de Mar[ccedil]o area has for decades 
remained one of the largest markets for counterfeit goods despite raids 
targeting this area.
    As another example, the overall average pendency of patent 
applications remains high, particularly for biopharmaceutical patent 
applications. The impact of the current average patent application 
pendency of almost 7 years (and 9.5 years for pharmaceutical patents 
granted between 2020 and 2024) is to cut into the patent term. In 
addition, the failure to effectively address piracy of copyrighted 
content remains a significant barrier to the adoption of legitimate 
content distribution channels. Brazil's failure to address such issues 
harms American workers whose livelihoods are tied to America's 
innovation- and creativity-driven sectors.

E. Ethanol Market Access

    The United States suffers from higher tariffs on ethanol by Brazil 
and from imbalanced trade resulting from Brazil's decision to abandon 
the reciprocal, virtually duty-free treatment that promoted the 
development of both of our industries and to flourishing and mutually 
beneficial trade. Brazil and the United States are the two largest 
ethanol producers in the world. In 2024, the United States produced an 
estimated 16.1 billion gallons of ethanol, while Brazil produced nearly 
8.8 billion gallons--figures that together make up 80 percent of the 
world's total ethanol production. The United States competes with 
Brazil in global sales of agricultural commodities that serve as 
feedstocks for biofuels such as ethanol and biodiesel, including corn 
and soybeans. In Brazil, the main feedstock for ethanol production is 
sugarcane, followed by corn. Brazil's corn ethanol production has been 
rapidly increasing since 2017.
    Between 2010 and 2017, Brazil and the United States each took 
action to establish virtually duty-free bilateral trade of ethanol. In 
2010, Brazil suspended its 20 percent tariff on imported ethanol, a 
move that was supported by Brazil's ethanol industry. In 2011, the 
United States allowed the ``blender'' tax credit to U.S. ethanol 
producers and the $0.54/gallon surcharge on ethanol imports to expire. 
These actions permitted bilateral ethanol trade to flourish.
    However, beginning in September 2017, Brazil abandoned this 
mutually beneficial approach, in a way that disadvantaged the United 
States in particular, which supplies the majority of Brazil's imports 
of ethanol. Since then, U.S. ethanol producers have, at times, faced 
steep and unfair Brazilian import tariffs on their products.
    Brazil first imposed a tariff-rate quota (TRQ) of 600 million 
liters annually in 2017, with an out-of-quota rate of 20 percent on 
imports of ethanol. In September 2019, the TRQ was expanded to 750 
million liters annually, but the TRQ expired in December 2020, causing 
all ethanol imports to face a 20 percent rate, which later changed to 
18 percent in November 2021. The expiry of the TRQ and significantly 
higher Brazilian tariff rates have had a negative impact on the 
previously robust bilateral ethanol trade. Brazil temporarily 
eliminated its ethanol tariff from March 23, 2022, to January 31, 2023, 
but then reinstated the tariff at 16 percent. Effective January 1, 
2024, Brazil set its tariff rate on ethanol at 18 percent, where it 
remains.
    These tariff rates have had demonstrable impacts on U.S. ethanol 
exports to Brazil. U.S. ethanol exports to Brazil peaked at $761 
million in 2018, but fell to $140,000 in 2023, and were $53 million in 
2024, suggesting that U.S. ethanol producers are at a significant 
disadvantage under the current tariff system.

F. Illegal Deforestation

    Evidence indicates that Brazil's lack of effective enforcement of 
its environmental laws and regulations has contributed to illegal 
deforestation in Brazil, and Brazilian ranchers and farmers have made 
use of such illegally deforested land by using it for agricultural 
production for livestock and a wide range of crops, including corn and 
soybeans. Conversion of illegally deforested land for agricultural 
production provides an unfair competitive advantage to agricultural 
exports by lowering costs and expanding availability of land inputs.
    Brazil is a major competitor of the United States in global sales 
of agricultural products, including beef, corn, and soybeans. When 
China engages in economic coercion and restricts or prohibits U.S. 
agricultural exports, Brazilian producers readily backfill those 
products. Although the United States has an overall trade surplus with 
Brazil in goods and services, the U.S. trade deficit with Brazil for 
agricultural products has risen steeply in recent years, from 
approximately US$3 billion in 2020 to US$7 billion in 2024.
    Agricultural production, particularly for soy plantations and 
cattle ranches, has been one of the main drivers of deforestation in 
Brazil, and deforestation reached a 15-year high in 2021. Brazil's 
enforcement efforts have

[[Page 34071]]

not stopped illegal deforestation, and previously deforested land has 
not been restored, despite some efforts by Brazil recently to 
strengthen its environmental laws as well as enforcement of those laws. 
While deforestation rates have declined in recent years, deforestation 
rates in 2024 were nevertheless estimated to be about 3,403 hectares 
per day. Evidence indicates that up to 91 percent of such deforestation 
could be illegal. Agricultural products produced on previously 
illegally deforested land may also continue to compete with U.S. 
products.
    Reports also suggest that illegal logging is occurring at 
significant levels in Brazil. In fact, reports estimate that more than 
one third of all Amazonian timber is estimated to be of illegal origin, 
either because it is illegally harvested from protected lands or it is 
harvested without the appropriate permits and approvals. There is 
documented evidence of the extensive use of forced labor within the 
context of illegal deforestation. Evidence also suggests that Brazilian 
producers use legitimate timber production sites as fronts, along with 
fraudulent transport documents, to launder illegal timber illegally 
harvested elsewhere. Corruption in the system also undermines Brazil's 
enforcement of laws designed to prevent illegal deforestation, as 
evidence indicates that timber harvested illegally is disguised as 
legal through fraudulent paperwork schemes and bribery of Brazilian 
officials. Evidence further indicates that Brazil has ineffectively 
enforced environmental laws and regulations meant to prevent illegally 
harvested timber from entering the market. Sanctioned production sites 
have continued to sell timber to U.S. buyers, and Brazilian timber 
exporters that have been fined have been able to continue trading 
products on the global market. Illegal timber enters the U.S. market in 
violation of laws such as the Lacey Act, and can be sold at lower 
prices, thereby creating an unfair advantage over U.S. products that 
are harvested legally.

II. Initiation of Section 301 Investigation

    Section 302(b)(1)(A) of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (Trade 
Act), authorizes the U.S. Trade Representative to initiate an 
investigation to determine whether an act, policy, or practice of a 
foreign country is actionable under Section 301 of the Trade Act. 
Actionable matters under Section 301 include acts, policies, and 
practices of a foreign country that are unreasonable or discriminatory 
and burden or restrict U.S. commerce. An act, policy, or practice is 
unreasonable if, while not necessarily in violation of, or inconsistent 
with, the international legal rights of the United States, it is 
otherwise unfair and inequitable.
    On July 15, 2025, in accordance with the specific direction of the 
President, the U.S. Trade Representative initiated a Section 301 
investigation to examine whether Brazil's acts, policies, and practices 
related to digital trade and electronic payment services; unfair, 
preferential tariffs; anti-corruption enforcement; intellectual 
property protection; ethanol market access; and illegal deforestation 
are unreasonable or discriminatory and burden or restrict U.S. 
commerce. Pursuant to Section 302(b)(1)(B) of the Trade Act, USTR has 
consulted with appropriate advisory committees and the inter-agency 
Section 301 Committee. Pursuant to Section 303(a) of the Trade Act, 
USTR is requesting consultations with the Government of Brazil.
    Pursuant to Section 304 of the Trade Act, USTR must determine 
whether the acts, policies, or practices under investigation are 
actionable under Section 301. If that determination is affirmative, the 
U.S. Trade Representative must determine whether action is appropriate, 
and if so, what action to take.

III. Request for Public Comments

    You may submit written comments on any issue covered by the 
investigation. In particular, USTR invites comments regarding:

Digital Trade and Electronic Payment Services

    <bullet> The acts, policies, or practices of Brazil that may 
undermine the competitiveness of U.S. companies engaged in digital 
trade or electronic payment services.
    <bullet> The extent to which Brazil's acts, policies, or practices 
discriminate against or unfairly disadvantage U.S. companies engaged in 
digital trade or electronic payment services.

Unfair, Preferential Tariffs

    <bullet> The acts, policies, or practices of Brazil which accord 
lower, preferential tariff treatment only to certain large trading 
partners in specific sectors, including sectors in which these trading 
partners are globally competitive.
    <bullet> The extent to which Brazil's acts, policies, or practices 
discriminate against or unfairly disadvantage U.S. exports and economic 
output.

Anti-Corruption Enforcement

    <bullet> The extent to which Brazil's enforcement of anti-
corruption is not sufficient.
    <bullet> The extent to which Brazil's lack of enforcement of anti-
corruption measures disadvantage U.S. companies engaged in trade and 
investment in Brazil.

Intellectual Property Protection

    <bullet> The acts, policies, and practices of Brazil that deny 
adequate and effective protection and enforcement of intellectual 
property rights.
    <bullet> The extent to which Brazil's acts, policies, or practices 
discriminate against or unfairly disadvantage American workers whose 
livelihoods are tied to American's innovation- and creativity-driven 
sectors.
    <bullet> Other acts, policies, and practices of Brazil relating to 
the protection or enforcement of intellectual property rights that may 
discriminate against or unfairly disadvantage U.S. businesses.

Ethanol Market Access

    <bullet> The extent to which Brazil's tariff rates or any related 
regulations on ethanol discriminate against or unfairly disadvantage 
U.S. ethanol producers.
    <bullet> Other acts, policies, or practices of Brazil that may 
discriminate against or unfairly disadvantage U.S. producers of 
ethanol, biofuels, or related products.

Illegal Deforestation

    <bullet> The extent to which Brazil has laws and regulations to 
effectively address illegal deforestation, use of illegally deforested 
land for agricultural production, and illegal logging taking place in 
its territory.
    <bullet> The extent to which Brazil is effectively enforcing laws 
and regulations to address illegal deforestation, use of illegally 
deforested land for agricultural production, and illegal logging taking 
place in its territory.
    <bullet> The extent to which agricultural products are being 
produced on illegally deforested land and are being exported, directly 
or through downstream agricultural products, to the United States or 
other markets.
    <bullet> The extent to which Brazilian products, including lumber 
and wooden furniture, are being made with timber harvested illegally 
and are being exported to the United States or other markets.
    <bullet> Other acts, policies, or practices of Brazil related to 
illegal deforestation that may discriminate against or unfairly 
disadvantage U.S. businesses.

[[Page 34072]]

General

    <bullet> Whether there are any other acts, policies, and practices 
of Brazil related to the production of goods and services referenced in 
this notice that discriminate against or unfairly disadvantage U.S. 
businesses.
    <bullet> Whether Brazil's acts, policies, and practices identified 
in this initiation notice are unreasonable or discriminatory.
    <bullet> Whether Brazil's acts, policies, and practices identified 
in this initiation notice burden or restrict U.S. commerce, and if so, 
the nature and level of the burden or restriction. This would include 
economic assessments of the burden or restriction on U.S. commerce.
    <bullet> Whether Brazil's acts, policies, and practices identified 
in this initiation notice are actionable under Section 301(b) of the 
Trade Act, and what action, if any, should be taken, including tariff 
and non-tariff actions.
    To be assured of consideration, USTR must receive written comments 
by 11:59 p.m. EDT on August 18, 2025. Additional instructions on how to 
submit written comments are provided below in Part V.

IV. Hearing Participation

    The Section 301 Committee will convene a public hearing on 
September 3, 2025, and if needed, the hearing will continue on 
September 4, 2025. To testify at the hearing, you must submit a request 
to appear using the electronic portal at <a href="https://comments.ustr.gov/s/">https://comments.ustr.gov/s/</a>, 
following the instructions in Part V below. Requests to appear must 
include a summary of testimony, and may be accompanied by a prehearing 
submission. Remarks at the hearing are limited to five minutes to allow 
for possible questions from the Section 301 Committee. All submissions 
must be in English. To be assured of consideration, USTR must receive 
your request to appear and summary of the testimony by August 18, 2025.
    Post-hearing rebuttal comments, which should be limited to 
rebutting or supplementing testimony presented at the hearing, may be 
submitted within seven calendar days after the last day of the public 
hearing. Rebuttal comments must be submitted using the electronic 
portal at <a href="https://comments.ustr.gov/s/">https://comments.ustr.gov/s/</a>, following the instructions in 
Part V below.

V. Submissions Instructions

    Interested persons must submit written comments, requests to appear 
at the hearing, summaries of testimony, and post-hearing rebuttal 
comments using the appropriate docket on the portal at <a href="https://comments.ustr.gov/s/">https://comments.ustr.gov/s/</a>. To make a submission, use the docket on the 
portal entitled `Request for Comments on the Section 301 Investigation 
of Acts, Policies, and Practices of Brazil Related to Digital Trade and 
Electronic Payment Services; Unfair, Preferential Tariffs; Anti-
Corruption Enforcement; Intellectual Property Protection; Ethanol 
Market Access; and Illegal Deforestation,' docket number USTR-2025-
0043. Interested persons wishing to provide testimony at the hearing 
must submit a notification of intent and summary of testimony using the 
docket entitled `Request to Appear at the Hearing on the Section 301 
Investigation of Acts, Policies, and Practices of Brazil Related to 
Digital Trade and Electronic Payment Services; Unfair, Preferential 
Tariffs; Anti-Corruption Enforcement; Intellectual Property Protection; 
Ethanol Market Access; and Illegal Deforestation,' docket number USTR-
2025-0044.
    You do not need to establish an account to submit comments or a 
notification of intent to testify. The first screen allows you to enter 
identification and contact information. Third party organizations such 
as law firms, trade associations, or customs brokers should identify 
the full legal name of the organization they represent and identify the 
primary point of contact for the submission. Information fields are 
optional. However, USTR may not consider your comment or request if 
insufficient information is provided. Fields with a gray Business 
Confidential Information (BCI) notation are for BCI information that 
will not be made publicly available. Fields with a green (Public) 
notation will be viewable by the public. After entering the 
identification and contact information, you can complete the remainder 
of the comment, or any portion of it, by clicking `Next.' You may 
upload documents at the end of the form and indicate whether USTR 
should treat the documents as business confidential or public 
information. Any page containing BCI must be clearly marked `BUSINESS 
CONFIDENTIAL' on the top of that page and the submission should clearly 
indicate, via brackets, highlighting, or other means, the specific 
information that is BCI. If you request business confidential 
treatment, you must certify in writing that the information would not 
customarily be released to the public. Parties uploading attachments 
containing BCI also must submit a public version of their comments. If 
these procedures are not sufficient to protect BCI or otherwise protect 
business interests, please contact the USTR Section 301 support line at 
202.395.5725 to discuss whether alternative arrangements are possible. 
USTR will post attachments uploaded to the docket for public 
inspection, except for properly designated BCI. You can view 
submissions on USTR's electronic portal at <a href="https://comments.ustr.gov/s/">https://comments.ustr.gov/s/</a>.

Jennifer Thornton,
General Counsel, Office of the United States Trade Representative.
[FR Doc. 2025-13498 Filed 7-17-25; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 3390-F4-P


</pre></body>
</html>
