<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 91 Issue 107 (Thursday, June 4, 2026)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 91, Number 107 (Thursday, June 4, 2026)]
[Notices]
[Pages 33854-33892]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2026-11158]


=======================================================================
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE


Notice of Determination and Request for Comments Concerning 
Action Pursuant to Section 301: Brazil's Acts, Policies, and Practices 
Related to Digital Trade and Electronic Payment Services; Unfair, 
Preferential Tariffs; Anti-Corruption Enforcement; Intellectual 
Property Protection; Ethanol Market Access; and Illegal Deforestation

AGENCY: Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR).

ACTION: Notice of determination and request for comments.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: The United States Trade Representative (Trade Representative) 
has determined that certain of Brazil's acts, policies, and practices 
at issue in this investigation are actionable under Section 301(b) and 
Section 304(a) of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (Trade Act). The 
Trade Representative is proposing action, including tariffs on articles 
of Brazil and certain exemptions, and invites comments from the public.

DATES: To be assured of consideration, the following schedule applies:
    June 1, 2026: Comment period opens.
    June 22, 2026: To be assured of consideration, submit requests to 
appear at the hearing, along with a summary of testimony, by this date.
    July 1, 2026: Due date for written comments.
    July 6, 2026: USTR will hold a public hearing in the main hearing 
room of the U.S. International Trade Commission, 500 E Street SW, 
Washington, DC 20436. If necessary, the hearing may continue on the 
next business day.

ADDRESSES: Submit documents in response to this notice, including 
written comments, through the online USTR portal at: <a href="https://comments.ustr.gov/s/">https://comments.ustr.gov/s/</a>. The docket number for comments is USTR-2026-0331. 
The docket number for requests to appear at the public hearing on the 
proposed tariff actions is USTR-2026-0397.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For general questions about this 
notice, contact Philip Butler and Megan Grimball, Chairs of the Section 
301 Committee; or Megan Paster, Assistant General Counsel, at (202) 
395-5725.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

I. Background

    At the specific direction of the President, on July 15, 2025, the 
Trade Representative initiated an investigation into Brazil's acts, 
policies, and practices related to digital trade and electronic payment 
services; unfair, preferential tariffs; anti-corruption enforcement; 
intellectual property protection; ethanol market access; and illegal 
deforestation. The notice of initiation solicited written comments on:

Digital Trade and Electronic Payment Services

    <bullet> The acts, policies, or practices of Brazil that may 
undermine the competitiveness of U.S. companies engaged in digital 
trade or electronic payment services.
    <bullet> The extent to which Brazil's acts, policies, or practices 
discriminate against or unfairly disadvantage U.S. companies engaged in 
digital trade or electronic payment services.

Unfair, Preferential Tariffs

    <bullet> The acts, policies, or practices of Brazil which accord 
lower, preferential tariff treatment only to certain large trading 
partners in specific sectors, including sectors in which these trading 
partners are globally competitive.
    <bullet> The extent to which Brazil's acts, policies, or practices 
discriminate against or unfairly disadvantage U.S. exports and economic 
output.

Anti-Corruption Enforcement

    <bullet> The extent to which Brazil's enforcement of anti-
corruption measures is not sufficient.
    <bullet> The extent to which Brazil's lack of enforcement of anti-
corruption measures disadvantages U.S. companies engaged in trade and 
investment in Brazil.

Intellectual Property Protection

    <bullet> The acts, policies, or practices of Brazil that deny 
adequate and effective protection and enforcement of intellectual 
property rights.
    <bullet> The extent to which Brazil's acts, policies, or practices 
discriminate against or unfairly disadvantage American workers whose 
livelihoods are tied to American innovation- and creativity-driven 
sectors.
    <bullet> Other acts, policies, or practices of Brazil relating to 
the protection or enforcement of intellectual property rights that may 
discriminate against or unfairly disadvantage U.S. businesses.

Ethanol Market Access

    <bullet> The extent to which Brazil's tariff rates or any related 
regulations on ethanol discriminate against or unfairly disadvantage 
U.S. ethanol producers.
    <bullet> Other acts, policies, or practices of Brazil that may 
discriminate against or unfairly disadvantage U.S. producers of 
ethanol, biofuels, or related products.

Illegal Deforestation

    <bullet> The extent to which Brazil has laws and regulations to 
effectively address illegal deforestation, use of illegally deforested 
land for agricultural production, and illegal logging taking place in 
its territory.
    <bullet> The extent to which Brazil is effectively enforcing laws 
and regulations to address illegal deforestation, using illegally 
deforested land for agricultural production, and permitting illegal 
logging in its territory.
    <bullet> The extent to which farmers are producing agricultural 
products on illegally deforested land in Brazil and exporting those 
products, directly or through downstream agricultural products, to the 
United States or other markets.
    <bullet> The extent to which Brazilian products, including lumber 
and wooden furniture, are being made with timber harvested illegally 
and are being exported to the United States or other markets.
    <bullet> Other acts, policies, or practices of Brazil related to 
illegal deforestation that may discriminate against or unfairly 
disadvantage U.S. businesses.

General

    <bullet> Whether there are any other acts, policies, and practices 
of Brazil related to the production of goods and services referenced in 
this notice that discriminate against or unfairly disadvantage U.S. 
businesses.
    <bullet> Whether Brazil's acts, policies, and practices identified 
in this initiation notice are unreasonable or discriminatory.
    <bullet> Whether Brazil's acts, policies, and practices identified 
in this initiation notice burden or restrict U.S. commerce,

[[Page 33855]]

and if so, the nature and level of the burden or restriction. This 
would include economic assessments of the burden or restriction on U.S. 
commerce.
    <bullet> Whether Brazil's acts, policies, and practices identified 
in this initiation notice are actionable under Section 301(b) of the 
Trade Act, and what action, if any, should be taken, including tariff 
and non-tariff actions.
    Interested persons submitted over 295 comments and rebuttal 
comments. Some of these comments were non-responsive or contained 
irrelevant information. Other comments did not address actionability of 
any of the specific issues raised in the Notice of Initiation, but 
requested either specific application or exemptions from tariffs for 
certain products or categories of products. USTR has included responses 
to major comments that did address actionability in Section III below. 
In addition, USTR and the Section 301 Committee convened a public 
hearing on September 3, 2025, during which witnesses provided testimony 
and responded to questions. The public submissions are available at 
https://<a href="https://comments.ustr.gov/s/in">https://comments.ustr.gov/s/in</a> docket number USTR-2025-0043, 
and a transcript of the hearing is available on USTR's website.
    On July 15, 2025, the Trade Representative requested consultations 
with the Government of Brazil pursuant to Section 303(a) of the Trade 
Act (19 U.S.C. 2413(a)). Consultations were held on April 15 and 16, 
2026.

II. Determination of Actionability

    Based on information obtained during the investigation and in 
consultation with the Section 301 Committee, the Trade Representative 
has determined under sections 301(b) and 304(a) of the Trade Act that 
certain of Brazil's acts, policies, and practices related to digital 
trade and electronic payment services; unfair, preferential tariffs; 
anti-corruption enforcement; intellectual property protection; ethanol 
market access; and illegal deforestation are unreasonable or 
discriminatory and burden or restrict U.S. commerce and thus are 
actionable.

A. Brazil's Acts, Policies, and Practices With Respect to Digital Trade 
and Electronic Payment Services Are Actionable

    The Trade Representative has determined that certain of Brazil's 
acts, policies, and practices with respect to digital trade and 
electronic payment services at issue in this investigation are 
unreasonable and burden or restrict U.S. commerce.\1\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \1\ On the facts gathered during this investigation, and at this 
time, the Trade Representative does not make any findings with 
respect to actionability of acts, policies, and practices relating 
to digital trade with respect to the Brazilian Supreme Court's 
decision of June 26, 2025, or restrictions on the transfer of 
personal data outside Brazil.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    First, Brazilian courts have issued secret orders directing U.S. 
social media companies, including X, Meta, and Google, to take down 
certain political content and to suspend the profiles of U.S. 
residents, sometimes globally, and prohibiting the platforms from 
disclosing these orders to profile owners. Brazilian courts have also 
subjected U.S. social media companies to substantial, daily non-
compliance fines or required them to cease operations in Brazil in the 
event of non-compliance. For example, Rumble, a video-sharing platform, 
has been suspended in Brazil since February 2025 after it refused to 
censor a U.S. resident pursuant to a secret Brazilian court order and 
later elected to publicly defend that user's free-speech rights. 
Similarly, Brazilian courts prohibited X from operating in Brazil from 
August to October 2024 after the company refused to take down content 
created by a Brazilian journalist living in the United States and 
appoint a local representative. In addition to imposing significant 
daily fines on X for failing to comply with this take-down order, a 
Brazilian court froze X's bank accounts, financial assets, motor 
vehicle and real estate assets; blocked aircraft registered to the 
company from entering or leaving Brazil; prevented Brazil's central 
bank from sending X financial assets abroad; and blocked payment-
processing platforms from processing payments for X. In 2023 and 2024, 
Brazilian courts ordered removal and demonetization of numerous 
accounts and channels related to a popular Brazilian podcaster who 
lives in Florida. In 2025, Brazilian courts allowed the unblocking of 
this podcaster's accounts only on the condition that allegedly 
offensive content remain inaccessible. Meta's transparency reports 
indicate that from July to December 2025, Brazil ordered it to restrict 
more content than it has restricted during any comparable period since 
2016, including approximately 9,800 items in compliance with orders 
from local courts and through legal take-down actions related to civil, 
criminal, and electoral proceedings. Exacerbating this situation is the 
Brazilian Supreme Court's decision of June 26, 2025, declaring 
partially unconstitutional Article 19 of Brazil's 2014 internet Civil 
Rights Framework, which required a judicial order before civil 
liability could arise from third-party content.
    Brazil's take-down orders are secret in that they are known to the 
social media company but not the affected individual. These orders have 
had adverse financial consequences for U.S. companies and persons. For 
example, access to X in Brazil was restored in October 2024 only upon 
the company's payment of a $5 million fine, and many of Brazil's take-
down orders threaten significant daily fines in the event of non-
compliance. Orders to cease operations in Brazil and block accounts or 
platforms in Brazil also result in a loss of market opportunities in 
Brazil for American social media companies and U.S. persons. The 
Brazilian Supreme Court's decision of June 26, 2025, compounds this 
situation of uncertainty and risk, and effectively requires companies 
to choose between potentially incurring substantial liability for user-
generated content and preemptively taking down potentially lawful 
content.
    These secret orders by Brazilian courts and harsh penalties for 
non-compliance are unreasonable because they require U.S. social media 
companies to take down political content and suspend the profiles of 
U.S. and Brazilian residents for political speech that is protected in 
the United States and necessary for vigorous political discourse. These 
orders also burden or restrict U.S. commerce by exposing U.S. social 
media companies to financial liability for failing to take down or 
suspend such materials, by imposing fines, restricting access to 
assets, accounts, and payment processing systems, and in at least one 
case, by shutting down a site altogether.
    Second, Brazil has unfairly disadvantaged U.S. companies engaged in 
competing electronic payment services, including by policies that favor 
its national champion Pix. The Brazilian central bank established the 
instant payment system Pix in November 2020. Pix connects financial and 
payment institutions (``participating institutions'') with individuals, 
firms, and government entities to provide instant or scheduled 
payments, cash withdrawals, payment invoices, and short-term borrowing, 
among other services. The Brazilian central bank's dual role as 
regulator and owner/operator of Pix creates a conflict of interest, in 
the absence of adequate procedural safeguards. The bank has acted as a 
regulator to disadvantage U.S. electronic payment services providers 
and preference Pix. For example, the central bank mandates the use of 
Pix by financial institutions with more than

[[Page 33856]]

500,000 accounts and requires that Pix be displayed on participating 
institutions' main application screen with no less prominence than any 
other payment or transfer functionality. In addition, the central bank 
encourages use of Pix over other services by mandating that 
participating institutions (including institutions that it requires to 
participate in Pix) offer Pix for free to individuals and by capping 
the fee those institutions may charge businesses for Pix transactions.
    The acts, policies, and practices of Brazil related to its 
preferential treatment of Pix are unfair and discriminatory. It is 
unfair to require competitors to provide advantages to Pix, such as 
availability, visibility, and fee caps, and Brazil discriminates 
against U.S. electronic payment services suppliers by providing those 
advantages only to Brazil's national champion. The acts, policies, and 
practices of Brazil related to its preferential treatment of Pix are a 
burden or restriction on U.S. commerce by imposing costs on U.S. 
services providers and by forcing U.S. providers to promote their 
Brazilian competitor, without compensation.

B. Brazil's Acts, Policies, and Practices With Respect to Unfair, 
Preferential Tariffs Are Actionable

    The Trade Representative has determined that Brazil's acts, 
policies, and practices with respect to unfair, preferential tariffs 
are unreasonable and burden or restrict U.S. commerce.
    Brazil maintains partial-scope preferential trade arrangements with 
Mexico and India covering sectors in which Mexico and India are 
advanced, globally competitive producers. Brazil accords lower, 
preferential tariff treatment to hundreds of Mexican and Indian goods 
across multiple sectors, such as agricultural products, motor vehicles 
and parts, minerals, chemicals, and machinery. This preferential 
treatment covers over a thousand tariff lines for Mexico and hundreds 
of tariff lines for India at tariff rates that are between 10 and 100 
percent lower than Brazil's most-favored-nation (MFN) rate, which 
applies to U.S. exports in those same sectors.
    The discrete sectors covered by Brazil's preferential trade 
arrangements with Mexico and India are ones in which the United States 
is also globally competitive and actively exporting to Brazil. 
Accordingly, Brazil's preferential trade arrangements with Mexico and 
India particularly undermine the market access of U.S. goods in Brazil. 
Trade data demonstrate that imports from Mexico and India of covered 
goods increased after the arrangements were concluded, both in absolute 
terms and relative to imports from the United States. For example, 
Mexican goods' share of global imports under tariff classifications 
covered by Brazil's arrangement with Mexico rose from 1.7% five years 
before entry into force (1998) to 3.3% twenty years after entry into 
force (2023); by contrast, over this period, U.S. goods' share 
decreased by half from 22% to 11%. Similarly, Indian goods' share of 
global imports under the tariff classifications covered by Brazil's 
arrangement with India rose from 3.2% five years before entry into 
force (2004) to 6.7% fifteen years after entry into force (2024); 
during this period, U.S. goods' share dropped by four percentage points 
to 8.2%. Although these trends may reflect other market dynamics and 
cannot be attributed solely to the preferential trade arrangements, 
those arrangements were one key factor contributing to the erosion of 
the market share of U.S. goods in key sectors.
    In 2025, Brazil imported approximately $5.9 billion in goods under 
tariff classifications covered by its preferential tariff commitments 
to Mexico and India--$4.7 billion from Mexico and $1.3 billion from 
India. These 2025 imports included approximately $1.8 billion in motor 
vehicles and motor vehicle parts from Mexico, relative to $1.0 billion 
from the United States, even though U.S. production of motor vehicles 
and motor vehicle parts is more than twice that of Mexico. Nearly all 
of Brazil's imports of motor vehicles and parts from Mexico were 
imported under tariff classifications subject to no tariffs, while 
Brazil's imports of these products from the United States were imported 
under tariff classifications subject to MFN rates, almost all of which 
are between 14% and 35%.
    Brazil's trade arrangements with Mexico and India also create 
incentives to offshore U.S. production by creating a financial 
advantage to exporting to Brazil from these countries, as opposed to 
exporting from the United States. This incentive is particularly strong 
for sectors in which Mexico and India do not impose substantial 
barriers on the importation of U.S. (or other origin) inputs and 
manufacturing equipment. So long as production relocated from the 
United States to Mexico or India is sufficient to meet the rules of 
origin in Brazil's preferential trade arrangements with Mexico or 
India, the finished good would qualify as originating from Mexico or 
India under the relevant arrangement and be eligible for tariff 
preferences.
    Brazil's acts, policies, and practices with respect to preferential 
tariffs benefiting Mexico and India are unreasonable or discriminatory 
because they apply substantially lower tariffs on Mexican and Indian 
goods for which Mexico and India are advanced, globally competitive 
producers, and thus particularly disadvantage U.S. exporters. Brazil's 
acts, policies, and practices burden or restrict U.S. commerce because 
they result in significantly higher tariffs on competing U.S. goods, 
and they create a strong incentive to offshore U.S. production to 
Mexico or India.
    Brazil contends that that its preferential trade arrangements with 
Mexico and India are consistent with World Trade Organization (WTO) 
rules, including the Enabling Clause. For reasons discussed below in 
Section III, Brazil's reliance on the Enabling Clause is misplaced. The 
Enabling Clause effectively carves out developing countries--most of 
the WTO Membership--from the MFN principle in key respects. Developing 
Members invoke the Enabling Clause to conclude regional trade 
agreements with other developing countries that provide tariff 
reductions without having to provide the same treatment to other WTO 
Members. But, as explained above, it is fundamentally unfair for Brazil 
to provide tariff preferences to supposedly developing Members that 
are, in fact, advanced, globally competitive producers, and thus 
compete with an artificial advantage against U.S. exporters. The 
Enabling Clause has caused systemic distortions in the global trading 
system.

C. Brazil's Acts, Policies, and Practices With Respect to Anti-
Corruption Enforcement Are Actionable

    The Trade Representative has determined that Brazil's acts, 
policies, and practices with respect to anti-corruption enforcement are 
unreasonable and burden or restrict U.S. commerce.
    Brazil has failed and continues to fail to take sufficient 
enforcement action to combat bribery and corruption. In an October 2023 
report, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development 
(OECD) expressed concerns that Brazil has failed to achieve a 
sustainable level of foreign bribery enforcement consistent with its 
economic profile and particularly given the involvement by Brazilian 
companies in some of the world's largest corruption cases in the last 
decade. The report highlighted Brazil's failure to investigate and 
prosecute foreign bribery allegations. In 2023, the OECD noted that 
Brazil's first and only foreign bribery case brought to criminal trial

[[Page 33857]]

was still ongoing despite commencing in 2014.
    The report also expressed concern regarding the annulment of all 
evidence in a leniency agreement with a Brazilian construction company 
that was negotiated by Brazil's Public Prosecutor's Office as part of 
Operation Car Wash. This decision, rendered in September 2023 by 
Brazilian Supreme Court Justice Dias Toffoli, dealt with the largest 
transnational corruption scheme in history and led to the annulment of 
more than a hundred cases in Brazil. In 2024, penalties under Operation 
Car Wash imposed on companies that had confessed to mass corruption 
were suspended and allowed to be renegotiated. The renegotiation of 
these leniency agreements has been faulted for progressing without 
transparency and with serious conflict of interests. Regarding these 
renegotiations, the Organization of American States found that Brazil's 
actions ``risk undermining the public trust in the use of these 
agreements and may contribute to a sense of legal uncertainty for legal 
entities'' and questions regarding the fairness of these agreements. In 
2025, Transparency International characterized the annulment of these 
cases as Brazil's most serious breach of the OECD's Anti-Bribery 
Convention.
    Despite condemnation from intergovernmental organizations for its 
backsliding in anti-corruption enforcement, Brazil has taken few steps 
to reverse course and its efforts to fight corruption remain weak. In 
January 2026, Transparency International issued a statement indicating 
that its Brazil chapter had been subject to increasing harassment from 
the Brazilian government following the organization's calls for greater 
transparency in Brazil's public infrastructure sector. The OECD also 
recently reported that companies have a general distrust towards the 
Brazilian government and a general fear of being associated with the 
public sector. Additionally, the OECD reported that Brazil ranked below 
the OECD average on many public integrity indicators.
    Brazil's judicial proceedings involving anti-corruption enforcement 
continue to move too slowly. Following Supreme Court Justice Toffoli's 
2023 decision to set aside evidence in Operation Car Wash, Brazil's 
Public Prosecutor's Office, along with the Sao Paulo Public 
Prosecutor's Office and the National Association of Prosecutors, 
challenged the decision in court, highlighting many alleged 
inconsistencies in the decision. The challenge is still pending at the 
Brazilian Supreme Court.
    In 2024, Brazil scored a 34 out of 100 on Transparency 
International's Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI), its lowest score 
since 2012, placing it well below the global average of 43, and 
positioning it at 107 out of 180 countries. In 2025, Brazil's CPI score 
remained low at 35 out of 100. Corruption in Brazil is not new, but 
with its recent actions, Brazil has moved farther away from global 
norms relating to fighting bribery and corruption.
    The acts, policies, and practices of Brazil with respect to anti-
corruption enforcement are unreasonable because Brazil's insufficient 
enforcement of its anti-corruption measures falls well short of global 
norms, including as reflected in its own laws. The acts, policies, and 
practices burden or restrict U.S. commerce because they allow corrupt 
companies to operate in Brazil with impunity while U.S. companies, 
which are subject to significant requirements and potential liability 
for foreign corrupt practices, are therefore disadvantaged in seeking 
trade and investment opportunities in Brazil.

D. Brazil's Acts, Policies, and Practices With Respect to Intellectual 
Property Protection Are Actionable

    The Trade Representative has determined that Brazil's acts, 
policies, and practices with respect to intellectual property 
protection and enforcement are unreasonable and burden or restrict U.S. 
commerce.
    In USTR's Special 301 Reports--prepared annually pursuant to 
Section 182 of the Trade Act to identify countries that deny adequate 
and effective intellectual property protections or fair and equitable 
market access to U.S. persons who rely on intellectual property 
protection--Brazil has been on the Watch List since 2007. Brazil's 
inclusion on this list reflects the longstanding and serious nature of 
the intellectual property issues U.S. companies have endured in Brazil.
    Consistent with the findings in the 2026 Special 301 Report, these 
issues include Brazil's failure to sufficiently enforce its criminal 
laws and customs regulations to address the importation and trafficking 
of counterfeit goods. For example, Brazil lacks deterrent-level 
penalties authorized by statute or issued by its courts, has 
insufficient numbers of customs officers posted at border points, and 
fails to prosecute offenses in a timely manner. Although customs 
enforcement data shows some increase in seizures through periodic 
campaigns, Brazil has reportedly failed to carry out systemic and 
consistent inspections. Counterfeit goods have surged in Brazil through 
smuggling and a significant increase in small parcels entering Brazil. 
Local manufacturing and finishing of counterfeit goods have also 
increased.
    Brazil has also failed to address the unreasonable length of time 
its authorities take to examine patent applications, particularly 
biopharmaceutical patents. Although Brazil reports efforts to decrease 
the average patent pendency in some fields, the overall average 
pendency for biopharmaceutical patent applications and its impact on 
effective patent term remain areas of serious concern. According to 
data from the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) published 
in 2025, Brazilian authorities take an average of 38.4 months to 
examine a patent application, as compared to 29.5 months for U.S. 
authorities or 21.5 months for the ``IP5'' (United States, the EU, 
Japan, Korea, and China). Put differently, patent pendency in Brazil is 
30% and 18% longer than in the United States and the IP5, respectively. 
For biopharmaceutical patents, the average pendency is at least 54 to 
63.6 months from the date of filing (according to Brazil's data on 
relevant art units), and may be long as 109.7 months from the filing 
date of the application (according to some stakeholders).
    Brazil has also failed to carry out consistent and continuous anti-
piracy measures. Although Brazil conducts some enforcement campaigns 
against online piracy with enforcement officials in other countries, 
piracy remains widespread, warranting consistent and continuous 
enforcement operations throughout the year. Moreover, Brazil has not 
joined the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty (WPPT) and WIPO 
Copyright Treaty (WCT), collectively known as the WIPO internet 
Treaties, which are aimed at preventing unauthorized access to creative 
works online. As a result, piracy of copyrighted content remains a 
significant barrier to the adoption of legitimate content distribution 
channels.
    Brazil's failure to effectively enforce its criminal laws and 
customs regulations against counterfeit goods--including a lack of 
deterrent-level penalties and insufficient numbers of customs officers 
posted at border points--undermines investments of U.S. businesses that 
rely on creativity and innovation, thereby depriving them of fair 
commercial opportunities in the Brazilian market. Furthermore, Brazil's 
lack of deterrent-level penalties for counterfeiting enables these 
illegal practices to continue with insignificant consequences. With 
respect to patent pendency, Brazil's delays can harm innovators by 
negatively affecting patent

[[Page 33858]]

value and reducing the effective patent term, and these harms are 
compounded by Brazil's lack of a patent-term-extension mechanism to 
compensate patent-holders for these unreasonable delays. Because the 
lack of consistent and continuous enforcement inhibits adoption of 
legitimate content distribution channels, Brazil's failure to combat 
piracy also harms American workers whose livelihoods are tied to 
America's innovation- and creativity-driven sectors.
    The acts, policies, and practices of Brazil with respect to 
intellectual property protection and enforcement are unreasonable 
because Brazil has failed to address longstanding and serious issues 
long set out in USTR's Special 301 reports, including its failure to 
sufficiently address counterfeiting, patent pendency, and piracy. The 
acts, policies, and practices burden or restrict U.S. commerce because 
they harm American workers whose livelihoods are tied to America's 
innovation- and creativity-driven sectors by depriving them of fair 
commercial opportunities.

E. Brazil's Acts, Policies, and Practices With Respect to Ethanol 
Market Access Are Actionable

    The Trade Representative has determined that Brazil's acts, 
policies, and practices with respect to ethanol market access are 
unreasonable and burden or restrict U.S. commerce.
    Brazil has discontinued its previously balanced tariff treatment 
and failed to reciprocate U.S. tariff treatment of ethanol. In 2010, 
Brazil took steps to facilitate bilateral trade in ethanol by 
suspending a 20% tariff on imports of ethanol. In a similar spirit of 
promoting bilateral ethanol trade, the United States allowed the 
``blender'' tax credit for U.S. ethanol producers and the $0.54/gallon 
surcharge on ethanol imports to expire the following year. Bilateral 
trade in ethanol subsequently flourished, with U.S. exports of ethanol 
to Brazil steadily increasing until Brazil abruptly departed from this 
reciprocal treatment in 2017. At that time, Brazil instituted a duty-
free tariff rate quota (TRQ) of 600 million liters, with imports above 
that amount subject to a 20% tariff. This came after a successful 
lobbying campaign by the Brazilian sugarcane and ethanol industries, 
which claimed that ethanol imports jeopardized domestic Brazilian 
ethanol production. Since then, Brazilian tariffs on ethanol have 
fluctuated, but have been set at 18% since February of 2023. Brazil has 
the ability to evaluate and change its ethanol tariff on a monthly 
basis, which further contributes to uncertainty in the market. Brazil 
has therefore abandoned bilateral cooperation to promote ethanol trade, 
choosing instead to establish non-reciprocal and unfair conditions for 
trade in this critical product.
    These actions by Brazil have denied fair and equitable market 
opportunities for U.S. ethanol producers. Imports of U.S. ethanol into 
Brazil have generally declined since Brazil reinstated its tariff on 
ethanol. In 2025, U.S. exports to Brazil totaled $96 million, an 87% 
decrease from the peak export value of $761 million in of 2018. 
Additionally, in 2024, U.S. ethanol import market share in Brazil had 
fallen to 54%, from a high of nearly 100% in 2018. At the same time, 
Brazilian ethanol exporters have continued to benefit from relatively 
open U.S. market access. In 2024, U.S. imports of ethanol from Brazil 
amounted to approximately $203 million dollars, while U.S. exports of 
ethanol to Brazil that same year amounted to only $53 million.
    In markets that did not impose similar barriers to Brazil, by 
contrast, U.S. exports have grown. In 2016 and 2017, prior to Brazil's 
imposition of tariffs, U.S. exports to Brazil and Canada were 
comparable. For example, in 2017, the United States exported 430 
million gallons of ethanol to Brazil and 326 million gallons to Canada. 
After Brazil's reimposition of tariffs in 2017, U.S. exports to Canada 
continued to grow (reaching 698 million gallons in 2024) while exports 
to Brazil declined (dropping to 28 million gallons in 2024).
    The acts, policies, and practices of Brazil with respect to ethanol 
market access are unreasonable because Brazil has abandoned bilateral 
cooperation to promote ethanol trade and Brazil has instead established 
non-reciprocal and unfair conditions for trade, which denies fair and 
equitable market opportunities for U.S. ethanol producers. The acts, 
policies, and practices burden or restrict U.S. commerce because U.S. 
ethanol exports are increasingly unable to compete in the Brazilian 
marketplace given Brazil's high tariffs, while Brazil exports a 
significantly greater value of ethanol to the United States.

F. Brazil's Acts, Policies, and Practices With Respect to Illegal 
Deforestation Are Actionable

    The Trade Representative has determined that Brazil's acts, 
polices, and practices with respect to illegal deforestation are 
unreasonable and burden or restrict U.S. commerce.
    Despite having a legal framework for combatting illegal 
deforestation, Brazil has historically failed to effectively enforce 
this legal framework, and illegal deforestation persists. For example, 
under Brazil's Forest Code (Law No. 12,651/2012), rural properties are 
required to register on the Rural Environmental Registry and provide 
detailed information that facilitates verification and traceability of 
legal-origin products. However, these entries are not adequately 
audited for fraud and false information, such as by frequently cross-
checking information provided with satellite data. Brazil's improved 
enforcement of the Forest Code and other environmental laws, policies, 
and regulations designed to combat illegal deforestation, as well as 
its investment in the technology that would facilitate more frequent 
and effective auditing, have not been sufficient. Reports indicate 
that, because of the prevalence of fraud in the timber sector, official 
documents are not sufficient to show that Amazonian timber was 
harvested legally. One 2024 study that analyzed protected areas 
throughout the Brazilian Amazon found that Brazil's policies failed to 
adequately prevent land grabbing, illegal ranching, and deforestation.
    Deforestation often proceeds in three stages: (1) primary forest is 
logged or otherwise deforested to be converted to pastureland for 
cattle; (2) once that pastureland is ``degraded'' the land is converted 
into a productive field, for crops such as soy and corn; and (3) having 
lost previous pastureland and desiring to continue expanding 
production, cattle ranchers cut down more primary forest.
    Deforestation, both legal and illegal, is closely linked to the 
production of certain timber and agricultural products. Estimates 
indicate that the conversion of land from primary forest to 
agricultural production accounts for over 90% of the deforestation 
(legal and illegal) in Brazil since 2001, and between 2018 and 2022, 
cattle ranching drove 78% of commodity-attributed deforestation. In 
addition, crops, such as soybeans and corn, are commonly planted on 
degraded pasture land, allowing those crops to benefit from the initial 
deforestation.
    Without effective enforcement of environmental laws, loggers and 
sawmills may more easily launder illegally harvested timber in global 
supply chains, while ranchers may launder cattle ranched on illegally 
deforested land by transferring them to legitimate slaughterhouses. 
Corruption is also an issue, as loggers and ranchers are known to bribe 
government officials to obtain necessary approvals and documentation 
and to pass inspections and audits.
    In addition, there is evidence that some sub-central levels of 
government

[[Page 33859]]

are taking steps to eliminate or roll back tax and other public- and 
private-sector incentives designed to discourage deforestation. For 
example, the state of Mato Grosso, which covers territory in the Amazon 
and Cerrado biomes, is attempting to eliminate tax benefits previously 
available for companies that signed voluntary agreements designed to 
combat deforestation (e.g., the Soy Moratorium). This action has 
already had a chilling effect, as large multi-national companies have 
recently begun withdrawing from the Soy Moratorium, which may weaken 
the agreement's impact on deforestation rates. As Brazil has failed to 
enforce--and even at times rolled back--its environmental laws, 
deforestation has become systemic, reaching a 15-year high in 2021. 
Deforestation also occurs across all biomes, and illegal deforestation 
is known to be particularly problematic in the Amazon and Atlantic 
Forest biomes. Reports indicate that, between 2023 and 2024, some 91% 
of deforestation in the Amazon was illegal. In the Cerrado biome, where 
there are more relaxed legal limits on maintaining forested land, 
estimates indicate that 51% of land clearing was illegal between 2023 
and 2024.
    While it is difficult to determine exact estimates of the share of 
Brazil's agricultural production that is grown on illegally deforested 
land, one 2021 study estimated that Brazil lost 18 million hectares of 
forest due to agro-conversion between 2013 and 2019, of which 95% was 
likely illegal. It is easier and less expensive to produce agricultural 
products on the degraded and previously deforested pastureland. This 
contributes to more Brazilian agricultural products competing in global 
markets, which leads to lower prices for those agricultural products. 
One study estimated that Brazil exported $19 billion in forest risk 
commodities in 2019.
    Illegally sourced timber products contribute to distorted global 
prices, resulting in the devaluation of U.S. wood products. In general, 
illegally sourced timber is estimated to reduce the value of legally 
sourced timber prices by 7% to 16%.
    Brazil's acts, polices, and practices with respect to illegal 
deforestation are unreasonable because they fail to effectively enforce 
Brazil's own laws, do not apply basic checks to ensure consistency with 
those laws, and promote unfair competition of Brazilian agricultural 
and wood products with goods produced without those practices. Brazil's 
acts, policies, and practices burden or restrict U.S. commerce because 
U.S. producers are forced to compete with artificially lower-cost 
Brazilian agricultural products. When agricultural and timber products 
produced on illegally deforested land enter the United States and 
global markets, this undermines the competitiveness of U.S. products, 
resulting in lost revenues and sales for U.S. producers and exporters.

III. Responses to Significant Comments

    As discussed above, the Trade Representative has determined that 
certain of Brazil's acts, policies, and practices are unreasonable or 
discriminatory and burden or restrict U.S. commerce, and thus are 
actionable. Below, USTR responds to comments on the actionability 
findings that raise significant issues.

A. Responses to Significant Comments on Digital Trade and Electronic 
Payment Services

    USTR received several comments regarding this issue area. Numerous 
commenters expressed concern with actions by Brazilian courts 
triggering aggressive take down of content and issuance of orders that 
require U.S. companies to remove content not just in Brazil, but 
worldwide, including in the United States. Commenters noted legal 
uncertainty, operational and compliance risks, and potential market 
access barriers for U.S.-based technology companies due to take-down 
orders by Brazilian courts and the Brazilian Supreme Court's decision 
to declare unconstitutional Brazil's statutory requirement of a 
judicial order before internet service providers could be held liable 
for user-generated content.
    A number of commenters characterized Brazil's regulation of digital 
trade as motivated by public interest and an attempt to address online 
hate speech, misinformation, and violence. Other commenters noted that 
the liability imposed under the Brazilian Supreme Court's June 2025 
decision has guardrails to limit the breadth of liability and that the 
decision is valid only until new legislation is enacted. However, these 
comments did not deny the existence of secret orders from Brazilian 
courts directing the take-down of political content and suspension of 
profiles of U.S. residents, nor did they dispute the global nature of 
certain orders issued by Brazilian courts.
    With respect to electronic payment services, many commenters noted 
that the Pix payment network had successfully expanded access to banks 
and digital payment methods. However, several commenters noted that the 
Brazilian central bank faced a conflict of interest in serving as both 
the regulator and owner/operator of Pix. One commenter detailed how 
this conflict of interest was inconsistent with various global norms 
and best practices on good governance. Another commenter described what 
the commenter viewed as discriminatory regulations Brazil had 
implemented to favor Pix. Although several commenters described their 
satisfaction with the Pix service or pointed to Pix's status within 
Brazil's central bank and compliance with Brazilian law, such comments 
do not negate concerns regarding the conflict of interest or 
preferential treatment afforded to Pix by the Brazilian government.
    Considering the public comments and the advice of the Section 301 
Committee, the Trade Representative has determined that certain of 
Brazil's acts, policies, and practices with respect to digital trade 
and electronic payment services at issue in this investigation are 
unreasonable and burden or restrict U.S. commerce.

B. Responses to Significant Comments on Unfair, Preferential Tariffs

    USTR received several comments regarding this issue area. Certain 
comments contended that Brazil's preferential trade arrangements with 
Mexico and India are consistent with WTO rules, including the Enabling 
Clause that permits certain trade arrangements between developing 
country WTO Members. Even assuming the consistency of Brazil's 
preferential trade arrangements with the Enabling Clause, that does not 
change the fact that the discrete sectors covered by Brazil's 
preferential trade arrangements with Mexico and India are among those 
trading partners' most advanced and globally competitive or are those 
in which the United States is also globally competitive and actively 
exporting to Brazil.
    Certain comments contended that Brazil's tariffs on goods of Mexico 
and India are not unfair or preferential because the average effective 
tariff rate applied to U.S. exports is lower than that applied to 
exports from Mexico and India, on account of various duty suspension or 
reduction programs. The United States has received no data supporting 
this disparity, but even assuming such data exist, the disparity would 
not account for the non-automatic nature of duty suspensions and 
reductions (which are available only if goods meet legal and regulatory 
criteria and in some cases receive advance approval from Brazilian 
authorities), which stands in contrast to the lower applied duties 
available

[[Page 33860]]

automatically and with certainty to Mexican and Indian goods (without 
additional application procedures or approvals).
    Comparing average effective tariff rates is also inapposite, as 
that rate will reflect the product or sectoral composition of imports 
from the exporting country. No comments have suggested that within 
tariff lines covered by Brazil's preferential trade arrangements, U.S. 
exports to Brazil enjoy lower effective tariff rates on account of 
Brazil's duty suspension or reduction programs.
    Considering the public comments and the advice of the Section 301 
Committee, the Trade Representative has determined that Brazil's acts, 
policies, and practices with respect to unfair, preferential tariffs 
are unreasonable and burden or restrict U.S. commerce.

C. Responses to Significant Comments on Anti-Corruption Enforcement

    USTR received limited comments regarding this issue area. Comments 
described Brazil's legal regime to combat corruption as comprehensive 
and transparent, pointing to a number of existing laws and regulations, 
as well as Brazil's attempts to update those measures. Comments also 
suggested that Brazil's enforcement of this anti-corruption regime was 
robust, pointing to the number of proceedings initiated in recent years 
and Brazil's role in global anti-corruption efforts. The existence of 
these laws and regulations and even their robust enforcement in certain 
instances does not refute the evidence in other instances that Brazil's 
acts, policies, and practices with respect to anti-corruption 
enforcement are unreasonable and burden or restrict U.S. commerce.
    Considering the public comments and the advice of the Section 301 
Committee, the Trade Representative has determined that Brazil's acts, 
policies, and practices with respect to anti-corruption enforcement are 
unreasonable and burden or restrict U.S. commerce.

D. Responses to Significant Comments on Intellectual Property 
Protection

    USTR received several comments regarding this issue area. Several 
comments noted the lack of certain intellectual property protection 
mechanisms within the Brazilian system, such as patent term 
adjustments, particularly for biopharmaceutical products. These 
commenters expressed that the lack of such mechanisms denies fair and 
equitable opportunities for American biopharmaceutical innovators and 
in turn undermines the ability of American biopharmaceutical innovators 
to compete fairly in the Brazilian market.
    Other commenters expressed that additional intellectual property 
protection mechanisms could delay generic competition, keep medicine 
prices high, and strain public health programs, especially in 
developing countries with limited healthcare funding. One commenter 
also questioned whether patent holders suffer financial harm due to 
long-term patent application pendency.
    Commenters also acknowledged Brazil's effort and record of 
decreasing the average patent application pendency, but reported that 
the average patent examination timeline for such products remained 
above average. Regarding piracy and counterfeit-related crimes, 
commenters noted Brazil had increased enforcement activities conducted 
in Rua 25 de Mar[ccedil]o, while also noting that there remains room 
for tougher penalties for counterfeiting.
    Considering the public comments and the advice of the Section 301 
Committee, the Trade Representative has determined that Brazil's acts, 
policies, and practices with respect to intellectual property 
protection are unreasonable and burden or restrict U.S. commerce.

E. Responses to Significant Comments on Ethanol Market Access

    USTR received several comments regarding this issue area. With 
respect to tariffs on ethanol imports, USTR received several comments 
providing evidence that Brazil's ethanol tariffs were unreasonable and 
discriminatory and burden and restrict U.S. commerce.
    Other comments argued that Brazil's tariff rates are not 
unreasonable since they are within Brazil's bound rates at the WTO, are 
lower than the Common External Tariff on ethanol applied by the 
Southern Common Market (MERCOSUR), and are applied on an MFN basis to 
countries that do not have a preferential trade agreement with 
MERCOSUR. Brazil's ethanol tariff is nevertheless unreasonable because 
of Brazil's unwarranted departure from bilateral cooperation to promote 
ethanol trade and because of Brazil's establishment of non-reciprocal 
and unfair conditions for trade in ethanol.
    Considering the public comments and the advice of the Section 301 
Committee, the Trade Representative has determined that Brazil's acts, 
polices, and practices with respect to ethanol market access are 
unreasonable and burden or restrict U.S. commerce.

F. Responses to Significant Comments on Illegal Deforestation

    USTR received many comments regarding this issue area. Most 
comments discussed the laws and regulations in place in Brazil that 
address illegal deforestation, and many summarized recent actions by 
the Government of Brazil to improve enforcement of laws intended to 
combat illegal deforestation. For example, some comments included 
discussion of recent efforts to strengthen enforcement, including 
recent technological advances and new regulatory and policy efforts 
that would combat and deter illegal deforestation. Even so, as 
historical data indicates, these efforts could be undone by future 
administrations, and rates of illegal deforestation could again 
increase. Moreover, these comments do not deny that illegal 
deforestation in Brazil has occurred and persists, leading to unfair 
agricultural and wood products production.
    Other comments provided evidence that deforestation in Brazil has 
contributed to Brazil's ability to unfairly increase agricultural 
output and fraud and corruption remain common along the value chains of 
particular products and industries, including beef, soy, and Amazonian 
timber. Several comments also provided evidence regarding the burden or 
restriction that agricultural products and timber products produced on 
illegally deforested land place on U.S. commerce.
    Many comments included a discussion of why various products, such 
as beef, soy, corn, sugar, cotton, coffee, eucalyptus wood and 
derivative products, Amazonian timber and wood products, yerba mate, 
nuts and dried fruits, carnauba wax, and others, either do or do not 
contribute to or benefit from illegal deforestation. While discrete 
products and industries might not contribute substantially to illegal 
deforestation or otherwise make efforts to minimize contributions to 
illegal deforestation, the fact remains that Brazil has taken 
insufficient action at a systemic level to address illegal 
deforestation or the unfair trade advantage that arises from it, and 
Brazil's lack of effective enforcement of environmental laws burdens 
U.S. commerce.
    Considering the public comments and the advice of the Section 301 
Committee, the Trade Representative has determined that Brazil's acts, 
polices, and practices with respect to illegal deforestation are 
unreasonable and burden or restrict U.S. commerce.

[[Page 33861]]

IV. Proposed Action To Be Taken in the Investigation

    Section 301(b) provides that upon determining that the acts, 
policies, and practices under investigation are actionable and that 
action is appropriate, the Trade Representative shall take all 
appropriate and feasible action authorized under section 301(c), 
subject to the specific direction, if any, of the President regarding 
such action, and all other appropriate and feasible action within the 
power of the President that the President may direct the Trade 
Representative to take under section 301(b), to obtain the elimination 
of that act, policy, or practice.
    Section 301(c) of the Trade Act authorizes the Trade Representative 
to take certain actions for purposes of carrying out the provisions of 
Section 301(b). For example, Section 301(c)(1)(B) authorizes the Trade 
Representative to ``impose duties or other import restrictions'' on the 
goods of the foreign country subject to the investigation. Pursuant to 
Sections 301(b) and (c), the Trade Representative proposes to determine 
that action is appropriate and that appropriate action would include 
applying tariffs of 25% on all goods of Brazil, with exemptions for 
certain goods, including informational materials, donations, 
accompanied baggage, all articles and parts of articles subject to 
section 232 tariffs, and certain products identified in the Annex. The 
proposed exemptions include raw materials that if subject to the 
proposed additional tariffs could lead to the unavailability of 
domestic supply. They also include products that could cause economy-
wide disruptions if subject to the proposed additional tariffs; and 
certain products that cannot be grown or produced in sufficient 
quantities in the United States or obtained from other sources. 
Finally, the proposed exemptions include articles for which additional 
tariffs may not contribute substantially to the elimination of Brazil's 
acts, policies, and practices described above.

V. Request for Public Comments

    In accordance with section 304(b) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 
2414(b)), USTR invites comments from interested persons with respect to 
the appropriate action to be taken. To be assured of consideration, you 
must submit written comments on the proposed action by July 1, 2026, in 
accordance with the instructions in Section VII below.
    With respect to the proposed action, USTR invites comments 
regarding the scope of tariff coverage (including the proposed excluded 
products identified in the Annex).
    In considering whether certain articles should be subject to 
additional duties under Section 301, USTR will consider the needs of 
the U.S. economy. In commenting on the inclusion or removal of 
particular tariff subheadings subject to the proposed action, USTR 
requests that comments address specifically whether the products under 
the tariff subheading are necessary raw materials, are available from 
alternative sources at reasonable prices or sufficient quantities 
outside of Brazil; whether additional tariffs would cause serious 
dislocations in the supply of the products and could cause economy-wide 
disruptions, or other similar factors; and whether imposing additional 
tariffs on products under the tariff subheading would be practical or 
effective in obtaining the elimination of the Brazil's acts, policies, 
and practices.
    USTR also invites views on the U.S. engagement with Brazil in the 
context of the ongoing Special 301 review (19 U.S.C. 2242) and the 
subjects of that engagement.
    Additional instructions on how to submit written comments are 
provided in section VII below.

VI. Hearing Participation

    The Section 301 Committee will convene a public hearing on July 6, 
2026. To testify at the hearing, you must submit a request to appear 
using the electronic portal at <a href="https://comments.ustr.gov/s/">https://comments.ustr.gov/s/</a>, following 
the instructions in Section VII below. Requests to appear must include 
a summary of testimony, and may be accompanied by a prehearing 
submission. USTR will announce details of the hearing at a later time, 
including the time allocated for each witness to testify and the start 
time of the hearing. All submissions must be in English. To be assured 
of consideration, USTR must receive your request to appear and summary 
of the testimony by June 22, 2026.

VII. Procedures for Written Submissions

    You must submit written comments using the appropriate docket on 
the portal at <a href="https://comments.ustr.gov/s/">https://comments.ustr.gov/s/</a>. All submissions must be in 
English. To submit written comments, use the docket on the portal 
entitled ``Request for Comments Concerning Proposed Action Pursuant to 
the Section 301 Investigation of Brazil's Acts,
    Policies, and Practices Related to Digital Trade and Electronic 
Payment Services; Unfair, Preferential Tariffs; Anti-Corruption 
Enforcement; Intellectual Property Protection; Ethanol Market Access; 
and Illegal Deforestation'', docket number USTR-2026-0331. Interested 
persons wishing to provide testimony at the hearing must submit a 
notification of intent and summary of testimony using the docket 
entitled ``Request to Appear at the Hearing on the Proposed Action 
Pursuant to the Section 301 Investigation of Brazil's Acts, Policies, 
and Practices Related to Digital Trade and Electronic Payment Services; 
Unfair, Preferential Tariffs; Anti-Corruption Enforcement; Intellectual 
Property Protection; Ethanol Market Access; and Illegal 
Deforestation,'' docket number USTR-2026-0397. You do not need to 
establish an account to submit comments. The first screen of each 
docket allows you to enter identification and contact information. 
Third party organizations such as law firms, trade associations, or 
customs brokers, should identify the full legal name of the 
organization they represent, and identify the primary point of contact 
for the submission. Information fields are optional; however, your 
comment or request may not be considered if insufficient information is 
provided.
    Fields with a gray Business Confidential Information (BCI) notation 
are for BCI information which will not be made publicly available. 
Fields with a green (Public) notation will be viewable by the public.
    After entering the identification and contact information, you can 
complete the remainder of the comment, or any portion of it by clicking 
``Next.'' You may upload documents at the end of the form and indicate 
whether USTR should treat the documents as business confidential or 
public information.
    Any page containing BCI must be clearly marked ``BUSINESS 
CONFIDENTIAL'' on the top of that page and the submission should 
clearly indicate, via brackets, highlighting, or other means, the 
specific information that is BCI. If you request business confidential 
treatment, you must certify in writing that disclosure of the 
information would endanger trade secrets or profitability, and that the 
information would not customarily be released to the public.
    Parties uploading attachments containing BCI also must submit a 
public version of their comments. If these procedures are not 
sufficient to protect BCI or otherwise protect business interests, 
please contact the USTR Section 301 support line at (202) 395-5725 to 
discuss whether alternative arrangements are possible.

[[Page 33862]]

    USTR will post attachments uploaded to the docket for public 
inspection, except for properly designated BCI. You can view 
submissions on USTR's electronic portal at <a href="https://comments.ustr.gov/s/">https://comments.ustr.gov/s/</a>.

Jennifer Thornton,
General Counsel, Office of the United States Trade Representative.

Annex

    Note: All products that are properly classified in the 
provisions of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States 
(HTSUS) that are listed in this Annex are not covered by the 
proposed action. The product descriptions that are contained in this 
Annex are provided for informational purposes only, and are not 
intended to delimit in any way the scope of the action. Only items 
that are properly classified in the listed provisions of the HTSUS 
are excluded from the proposed action. Any questions regarding the 
scope of particular HTSUS provisions should be referred to U.S. 
Customs and Border Protection. In the product descriptions, the 
abbreviation ``nesoi'' means ``not elsewhere specified or 
included''.

    Notes on certain HTSUS provisions for which only a portion of the 
provision is covered in this Annex, as provided in the ``Scope 
Limitations'' column:
    <bullet> A subheading marked with ``Ex'' is defined and limited by 
the product description.
    <bullet> A subheading marked with ``Aircraft'' includes only 
articles of civil aircraft (all aircraft other than military aircraft); 
their engines, parts, and components; their other parts, components, 
and subassemblies; and ground flight simulators and their parts and 
components, that otherwise meet the criteria of general note 6 of the 
HTSUS, regardless of whether a product is entered under a provision for 
which the rate of duty ``Free (C)'' appears in the ``Special'' sub-
column.
    In addition to the products listed in this Annex, the proposed 
action does not cover informational materials, donations, accompanied 
baggage, and all articles and parts of articles that are subject to 
section 232 tariffs.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
            HTSUS                                  Description                            Scope limitations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0201.10.05..................  Bovine carcasses and halves, fresh or chilled,
                               described in general note 15 of the HTSUS.
0201.10.10..................  Bovine carcasses and halves, fresh or chilled,
                               described in additional U.S. note 3 to chapter 2 of
                               the HTSUS.
0201.10.50..................  Bovine carcasses and halves, fresh or chilled, other
                               than described in general note 15 or additional
                               U.S. note 3 to chapter 2 of the HTSUS.
0201.20.02..................  High-quality beef cuts, with bone in, processed,
                               fresh or chilled, described in general note 15 of
                               the HTSUS.
0201.20.04..................  Bovine meat cuts (except high-quality beef cuts),
                               with bone in, processed, fresh or chilled,
                               described in general note 15 of the HTSUS.
0201.20.06..................  Bovine meat cuts, with bone in, not processed, fresh
                               or chilled, described in general note 15 of the
                               HTSUS.
0201.20.10..................  High-quality beef cuts, with bone in, processed,
                               fresh or chilled, described in additional U.S. note
                               3 to chapter 2 of the HTSUS.
0201.20.30..................  Bovine meat cuts (except high-quality beef cuts),
                               with bone in, processed, fresh or chilled,
                               described in additional U.S. note 3 to chapter 2 of
                               the HTSUS.
0201.20.50..................  Bovine meat cuts, with bone in, not processed, fresh
                               or chilled, described in additional U.S. note 3 to
                               chapter 2 of the HTSUS.
0201.20.80..................  Bovine meat cuts, with bone in, fresh or chilled,
                               not described in general note 15 or additional U.S.
                               note 3 to chapter 2 of the HTSUS.
0201.30.02..................  High-quality beef cuts, boneless, processed, fresh
                               or chilled, described in general note 15 of the
                               HTSUS.
0201.30.04..................  Bovine meat cuts (except high-quality beef cuts),
                               boneless, processed, fresh or chilled, described in
                               general note 15 of the HTSUS.
0201.30.06..................  Bovine meat cuts, boneless, not processed, fresh or
                               chilled, described in general note 15 of the HTSUS.
0201.30.10..................  High-quality beef cuts, boneless, processed, fresh
                               or chilled, described in additional U.S. note 3 to
                               chapter 2 of the HTSUS.
0201.30.30..................  Bovine meat cuts (except high-quality beef cuts),
                               boneless, processed, fresh or chilled, described in
                               additional U.S. note 3 to chapter 2 of the HTSUS.
0201.30.50..................  Bovine meat cuts, boneless, not processed, fresh or
                               chilled, described in additional U.S. note 3 to
                               chapter 2 of the HTSUS.
0201.30.80..................  Bovine meat cuts, boneless, fresh or chilled, not
                               described in general note 15 or additional U.S.
                               note 3 to chapter 2 of the HTSUS.
0202.10.05..................  Bovine carcasses and halves, frozen, described in
                               general note 15 of the HTSUS.
0202.10.10..................  Bovine carcasses and halves, frozen, described in
                               additional U.S. note 3 to chapter 2 of the HTSUS.
0202.10.50..................  Bovine carcasses and halves, frozen, other than
                               described in general note 15 or additional U.S.
                               note 3 to chapter 2 of the HTSUS.
0202.20.02..................  High-quality beef cuts, with bone in, processed,
                               frozen, described in general note 15 of the HTSUS.
0202.20.04..................  Bovine meat cuts (except high-quality beef cuts),
                               with bone in, processed, frozen, described in
                               general note 15 of the HTSUS.
0202.20.06..................  Bovine meat cuts, with bone in, not processed,
                               frozen, described in general note 15 of the HTSUS.
0202.20.10..................  High-quality beef cuts, with bone in, processed,
                               frozen, described in additional U.S. note 3 to
                               chapter 2 of the HTSUS.
0202.20.30..................  Bovine meat cuts (except high-quality beef cuts),
                               with bone in, processed, frozen, described in
                               additional U.S. note 3 to chapter 2 of the HTSUS.
0202.20.50..................  Bovine meat cuts, with bone in, not processed,
                               frozen, described in additional U.S. note 3 to
                               chapter 2 of the HTSUS.
0202.20.80..................  Bovine meat cuts, with bone in, frozen, not
                               described in general note 15 or additional U.S.
                               note 3 to chapter 2 of the HTSUS.
0202.30.02..................  High-quality beef cuts, boneless, processed, frozen,
                               described in general note 15 of the HTSUS.
0202.30.04..................  Bovine meat cuts (except high-quality beef cuts),
                               boneless, processed, frozen, described in general
                               note 15 of the HTSUS.
0202.30.06..................  Bovine meat cuts, boneless, not processed, frozen,
                               described in general note 15 of the HTSUS.
0202.30.10..................  High-quality beef cuts, boneless, processed, frozen,
                               described in additional U.S. note 3 to chapter 2 of
                               the HTSUS.

[[Page 33863]]

 
0202.30.30..................  Bovine meat cuts (except high-quality beef cuts),
                               boneless, processed, frozen, described in
                               additional U.S. note 3 to chapter 2 of the HTSUS.
0202.30.50..................  Bovine meat cuts, boneless, not processed, frozen,
                               described in additional U.S. note 3 to chapter 2 of
                               the HTSUS.
0202.30.80..................  Bovine meat cuts, boneless, frozen, not described in
                               general note 15 or additional U.S. note 3 to
                               chapter 2 of the HTSUS.
0206.10.00..................  Edible offal of bovine animals, fresh or chilled....
0206.21.00..................  Tongues of bovine animals, frozen...................
0206.22.00..................  Livers of bovine animals, frozen....................
0206.29.00..................  Edible offal of bovine animals, except tongues or
                               livers, frozen.
0210.20.00..................  Meat of bovine animals, salted, in brine, dried or
                               smoked.
0508.00.00..................  Coral, shells, cuttlebone and similar materials,
                               unworked or simply prepared but not cut to shape;
                               powder and waste thereof.
0702.00.20..................  Tomatoes, fresh or chilled, if entered during the
                               period from March 1 to July 14, or the period from
                               September 1 to November 14 in any year.
0702.00.40..................  Tomatoes, fresh or chilled, if entered during the
                               period from July 15 to August 31 in any year.
0702.00.60..................  Tomatoes, fresh or chilled, if entered during the
                               period from November 15, in any year, to the last
                               day of February of the following year.
0709.99.05..................  Jicamas and breadfruit, fresh or chilled............
0709.99.10..................  Chayote (Sechium edule), fresh or chilled...........
0710.80.15..................  Bamboo shoots and water chestnuts (other than
                               Chinese water chestnuts), uncooked or cooked by
                               steaming or boiling in water, frozen.
0711.90.30..................  Capers, provisionally preserved but unsuitable in
                               that state for immediate consumption.
0712.32.00..................  Dried wood ears (Auricularia spp.), whole, cut,
                               sliced, broken or in powder, but not further
                               prepared.
0712.34.10..................  Air dried or sun dried shiitake.....................
0712.34.20..................  Dried (other than air dried or sun dried) shiitake..
0713.34.20..................  Dried Bambara beans, shelled, if entered for
                               consumption during the period from May 1 through
                               August 31, inclusive, in any year.
0713.34.40..................  Dried Bambara beans, shelled, if entered for
                               consumption outside the above period, or if
                               withdrawn for consumption.
0714.10.10..................  Cassava (manioc), frozen, whether or not sliced or
                               in the form of pellets.
0714.10.20..................  Cassava (manioc), fresh, chilled or dried, whether
                               or not sliced or in the form of pellets.
0714.40.10..................  Taro (Colocasia spp.), fresh or chilled, whether or
                               not sliced or in the form of pellets.
0714.40.20..................  Taro (Colocasia spp.), frozen.......................
0714.40.50..................  Taro (Colocasia spp.), dried, in the form of pellets
0714.40.60..................  Taro (Colocasia spp.), dried, whether or not sliced
                               but not in pellets.
0714.50.10..................  Yautia (Xanthosoma spp.), fresh or chilled, whether
                               or not sliced or in the form of pellets.
0714.50.20..................  Yautia (Xanthosoma spp.), frozen....................
0714.50.60..................  Yautia (Xanthosoma spp.), dried, whether or not
                               sliced but not in pellets.
0714.90.42..................  Other mixtures of Chinese water chestnuts, frozen...
0714.90.44..................  Chinese water chestnuts, not mixed, frozen..........
0714.90.46..................  Frozen dasheens, arrowroot, salep, Jerusalem
                               artichokes, and similar roots and tubers, nesoi.
0714.90.48..................  Chinese water chestnuts, dried......................
0714.90.61..................  Dried dasheens, arrowroot, salep, Jerusalem
                               artichokes, and similar roots and tubers nesoi,
                               whether or not sliced but not in pellets.
0801.11.00..................  Coconuts, desiccated................................
0801.12.00..................  Coconuts, fresh, in the inner shell (endocarp)......
0801.19.01..................  Coconuts, fresh, not in the inner shell (endocarp)..
0801.21.00..................  Brazil nuts, fresh or dried, in shell...............
0801.22.00..................  Brazil nuts, fresh or dried, shelled................
0801.31.00..................  Cashew nuts, fresh or dried, in shell...............
0801.32.00..................  Cashew nuts, fresh or dried, shelled................
0802.41.00..................  Chestnuts (Castanea spp.), fresh or dried, in shell.
0802.42.00..................  Chestnuts (Castanea spp.), fresh or dried, shelled..
0802.61.00..................  Macadamia nuts, in shell............................
0802.62.00..................  Macadamia nuts, shelled.............................
0802.70.10..................  Kola nuts (Cola spp.), fresh or dried, in shell.....
0802.70.20..................  Kola nuts (Cola spp.), fresh or dried, shelled......
0802.80.10..................  Areca nuts, fresh or dried, in shell................
0802.80.20..................  Areca nuts, fresh or dried, shelled.................
0802.91.10..................  Pignolia pine nuts, fresh or dried, in shell........
0802.91.90..................  Pine nuts (other than Pignolia), fresh or dried, in
                               shell.
0802.92.10..................  Pignolia pine nuts, fresh or dried, shelled.........
0802.92.90..................  Pine nuts (other than Pignolia), fresh or dried,
                               shelled.
0803.10.10..................  Plantains, fresh....................................
0803.10.20..................  Plantains, dried....................................
0803.90.00..................  Bananas, fresh or dried.............................
0804.30.20..................  Pineapples, fresh or dried, not reduced in size, in
                               bulk.
0804.30.40..................  Pineapples, fresh or dried, not reduced in size, in
                               crates or other packages.
0804.30.60..................  Pineapples, fresh or dried, reduced in size.........
0804.40.00..................  Avocados, fresh or dried............................
0804.50.40..................  Guavas, mangoes and mangosteens, fresh, if entered
                               during the period September 1 through the following
                               May 31, inclusive.

[[Page 33864]]

 
0804.50.60..................  Guavas, mangoes and mangosteens, fresh, if entered
                               during the period June 1 through August 31,
                               inclusive.
0804.50.80..................  Guavas, mangoes and mangosteens, dried..............
0805.10.00..................  Oranges, fresh or dried.............................
0805.50.30..................  Tahitian limes, Persian limes and other limes of the
                               Citrus latifolia variety, fresh or dried.
0805.50.40..................  Limes of the Citrus aurantifolia variety, nesoi,
                               fresh or dried.
0805.90.01..................  Etrogs..............................................  Ex.
0807.20.00..................  Papayas (papaws), fresh.............................
0808.40.20..................  Quinces, fresh, if entered during the period from
                               April 1 through June 30, inclusive.
0808.40.40..................  Quinces, fresh, if entered during the period from
                               July 1 through the following March 31, inclusive.
0810.50.00..................  Kiwifruit, fresh....................................
0810.60.00..................  Durians, fresh......................................
0810.90.27..................  Other berries and tamarinds, fresh..................
0810.90.46..................  Fruit, nesoi, fresh.................................
0811.90.10..................  Bananas and plantains, frozen, in water or
                               containing added sweetening.
0811.90.25..................  Cashew apples, mameyes colorados, sapodillas,
                               soursops and sweetsops, frozen, in water or
                               containing added sweetening.
0811.90.30..................  Coconut meat, frozen, in water or containing added
                               sweetening.
0811.90.40..................  Papayas, frozen, in water or containing added
                               sweetening.
0811.90.50..................  Pineapples, frozen, in water or containing added
                               sweetening.
0811.90.52..................  Mangoes, frozen, whether or not previously steamed
                               or boiled.
0811.90.80..................  Tropical fruit, nesoi, frozen, whether or not         Ex.
                               previously steamed or boiled.
0812.90.40..................  Pineapples, provisionally preserved, but unsuitable
                               in that state for immediate consumption.
0901.11.00..................  Coffee, not roasted, not decaffeinated..............
0901.12.00..................  Coffee, not roasted, decaffeinated..................
0901.21.00..................  Coffee, roasted, not decaffeinated..................
0901.22.00..................  Coffee, roasted, decaffeinated......................
0901.90.10..................  Coffee husks and skins..............................
0901.90.20..................  Coffee substitutes containing coffee................
0902.10.10..................  Green tea in immediate packings of a content not
                               exceeding 3 kg, flavored.
0902.10.90..................  Green tea in immediate packings of a content not
                               exceeding 3 kg, not flavored.
0902.20.10..................  Green tea in immediate packings of a content
                               exceeding 3 kg, flavored.
0902.20.90..................  Green tea in immediate packings of a content
                               exceeding 3 kg, not flavored.
0902.30.00..................  Black tea (fermented) and partly fermented tea, in
                               immediate packings of a content not exceeding 3 kg.
0902.40.00..................  Black tea (fermented) and partly fermented tea,
                               other than in immediate packings of a content not
                               exceeding 3 kg.
0903.00.00..................  Mat[eacute].........................................
0904.11.00..................  Pepper of the genus Piper, neither crushed nor
                               ground.
0904.12.00..................  Pepper of the genus Piper, crushed or ground........
0904.21.20..................  Paprika, dried, neither crushed nor ground..........
0904.21.40..................  Anaheim and ancho pepper, dried, neither crushed nor
                               ground.
0904.21.60..................  Fruits of the genus Capsicum, other than paprika or
                               anaheim and ancho pepper, dried, neither crushed
                               nor ground.
0904.21.80..................  Fruits of the genus Pimenta (including allspice),
                               dried.
0904.22.20..................  Paprika, crushed or ground..........................
0904.22.40..................  Anaheim and ancho pepper, crushed or ground.........
0904.22.73..................  Mixtures of mashed or macerated hot red peppers and
                               salt, nesoi.
0904.22.76..................  Fruits of the genus Capsicum, crushed or ground,
                               nesoi.
0904.22.80..................  Fruits of the genus Pimenta (including allspice),
                               crushed or ground.
0905.10.00..................  Vanilla beans, neither crushed nor ground...........
0905.20.00..................  Vanilla beans, crushed or ground....................
0906.11.00..................  Cinnamon (Cinnamomum zeylanicum Blume), neither
                               crushed nor ground.
0906.19.00..................  Cinnamon and cinnamon-tree flowers, nesoi, neither
                               crushed nor ground.
0906.20.00..................  Cinnamon and cinnamon-tree flowers, crushed or
                               ground.
0907.10.00..................  Cloves (whole fruit, cloves and stems), neither
                               crushed nor ground.
0907.20.00..................  Cloves (whole fruit, cloves and stems), crushed or
                               ground.
0908.11.00..................  Nutmeg, neither crushed nor ground..................
0908.12.00..................  Nutmeg, crushed or ground...........................
0908.21.00..................  Mace, neither crushed nor ground....................
0908.22.20..................  Mace, ground, Bombay or wild........................
0908.22.40..................  Mace, crushed or ground, other than ground Bombay or
                               wild mace.
0908.31.00..................  Cardamoms, neither crushed nor ground...............
0908.32.00..................  Cardamoms, crushed or ground........................
0909.21.00..................  Seeds of coriander, neither crushed nor ground......
0909.22.00..................  Seeds of coriander, crushed or ground...............
0909.31.00..................  Seeds of cumin, neither crushed nor ground..........
0909.32.00..................  Seeds of cumin, crushed or ground...................
0909.61.00..................  Seeds of anise, badian, caraway or fennel; juniper
                               berries; neither crushed nor ground.
0909.62.00..................  Seeds of anise, badian, caraway or fennel; juniper
                               berries; crushed or ground.
0910.11.00..................  Ginger, neither crushed nor ground..................
0910.12.00..................  Ginger, crushed or ground...........................
0910.20.00..................  Saffron.............................................
0910.30.00..................  Turmeric (curcuma)..................................
0910.91.00..................  Mixtures of spices referred to in note 1(b) to
                               chapter 9 of the HTSUS.

[[Page 33865]]

 
0910.99.07..................  Bay leaves, other than crude or not manufactured....
0910.99.10..................  Curry...............................................
0910.99.20..................  Origanum, crude or not manufactured.................
0910.99.40..................  Origanum, other than crude or not manufactured......
0910.99.50..................  Dill................................................
0910.99.60..................  Spices, nesoi.......................................
1003.90.40..................  Barley, not seed, other than for malting purposes...
1008.30.00..................  Canary seed.........................................
1008.40.00..................  Fonio (Digitaria spp.)..............................
1008.60.00..................  Triticale...........................................
1106.20.90..................  Flour, meal and powder of sago, or of roots or
                               tubers of heading 0714 (excluding Chinese water
                               chestnuts).
1106.30.20..................  Flour, meal and powder of banana and plantain.......
1108.14.00..................  Cassava (manioc) starch.............................
1108.19.00..................  Starches other than wheat, corn (maize), potato or
                               cassava (manioc) starches.
1203.00.00..................  Copra...............................................
1207.91.00..................  Poppy seeds, whether or not broken..................
1404.90.90..................  Date palm branches, Myrtus branches or other          Ex.
                               vegetable material, for religious purposes only.
1513.11.00..................  Coconut (copra) oil and its fractions, crude oil....
1513.19.00..................  Coconut (copra) oil and its fractions, other........
1521.10.00..................  Vegetable waxes (other than triglycerides), whether
                               or not refined or colored.
1521.90.20..................  Bleached beeswax....................................
1602.50.05..................  Offal of bovine animals, prepared or preserved......
1602.50.07..................  Corned beef in airtight containers..................
1602.50.08..................  Offal of bovine animals, cured or pickled, not
                               corned beef, not in airtight containers.
1602.50.21..................  Offal of bovine animals, other, in airtight
                               containers.
1602.50.60..................  Prepared or preserved meat of bovine animals, not
                               containing cereals or vegetables, nesoi.
1602.50.90..................  Prepared or preserved meat of bovine animals,
                               containing cereals or vegetables.
1801.00.00..................  Cocoa beans, whole or broken, raw or roasted........
1802.00.00..................  Cocoa shells, husks, skins and other cocoa waste....
1803.10.00..................  Cocoa paste, not defatted...........................
1803.20.00..................  Cocoa paste, wholly or partly defatted..............
1804.00.00..................  Cocoa butter, fat and oil...........................
1805.00.00..................  Cocoa powder, not containing added sugar or other
                               sweetening matter.
1903.00.20..................  Tapioca and substitutes prepared from starch, of
                               arrowroot, cassava or sago, in the form of flakes,
                               grains, pearls, siftings or in similar forms.
1903.00.40..................  Tapioca and substitutes, prepared from starch nesoi,
                               in the form of flakes, grains, pearls, siftings or
                               in similar forms.
1905.90.10..................  Bread, pastry, cakes, biscuits and similar baked      Ex.
                               products, nesoi, and puddings, whether or not
                               containing chocolate, fruit, nuts or confectionery,
                               for religious purposes only.
1905.90.90..................  Bakers' wares, communion wafers, sealing wafers,      Ex.
                               rice paper and similar products, nesoi, for
                               religious purposes only.
2001.90.45..................  Mangoes, prepared or preserved by vinegar or acetic
                               acid.
2005.91.60..................  Bamboo shoots in airtight containers, prepared or
                               preserved otherwise than by vinegar or acetic acid,
                               not frozen, not preserved by sugar.
2006.00.40..................  Pineapples, preserved by sugar (drained,
                               glac[eacute] or crystallized).
2007.99.40..................  Pineapple jam.......................................
2007.99.50..................  Guava and mango pastes and purees, being cooked
                               preparations.
2008.19.15..................  Coconuts, otherwise prepared or preserved, nesoi....
2008.20.00..................  Pineapples, otherwise prepared or preserved, nesoi..
2008.30.35..................  Orange pulp.........................................
2008.91.00..................  Palm hearts, otherwise prepared or preserved, nesoi.
2008.99.13..................  Banana pulp, otherwise prepared or preserved, nesoi.
2008.99.15..................  Bananas, other than pulp, otherwise prepared or
                               preserved, nesoi.
2008.99.21..................  Acai................................................  Ex.
2008.99.40..................  Mangoes, otherwise prepared or preserved, nesoi.....
2008.99.45..................  Papaya pulp, otherwise prepared or preserved, nesoi.
2008.99.91..................  Bean cake, bean stick, miso, other fruit, nuts and
                               other edible parts of plants, prepared or preserved.
2009.11.00..................  Orange juice, frozen, unfermented and not containing
                               added spirit.
2009.12.25..................  Orange juice, not frozen, of a Brix value not
                               exceeding 20, not concentrated and not made from
                               juice having a degree of concentration of 1.5 or
                               more, unfermented.
2009.12.45..................  Orange juice, not frozen, of a Brix value not
                               exceeding 20, concentrated, unfermented.
2009.19.00..................  Orange juice, not frozen, of a Brix value exceeding
                               20, unfermented.
2009.31.60..................  Citrus juice of any single citrus fruit (other than   Ex.
                               orange, grapefruit or lime), of a Brix value not
                               exceeding 20, concentrated, unfermented, except for
                               lemon juice.
2009.39.20..................  Lime juice, of a Brix value exceeding 20, fit for
                               beverage purposes, unfermented.
2009.49.40..................  Pineapple juice, of a Brix value exceeding 20,
                               concentrated (in degree of concentration greater
                               than 3.5).
2009.89.70..................  Coconut water or juice of acai......................  Ex.
2009.90.40..................  Coconut water juice blends, not from concentrate,     Ex.
                               packaged for retail sale.
2101.11.29..................  Extracts, essences and concentrates of coffee other
                               than unflavored instant coffee.
2101.12.90..................  Preparations nesoi, with a basis of extracts,
                               essences or concentrates or with a basis of coffee.
2101.20.20..................  Extracts, essences or concentrates of tea or mate...
2106.90.48..................  Orange juice, fortified with vitamins or minerals...
2106.90.99..................  Acai preparations for the manufacture of beverages..  Ex.

[[Page 33866]]

 
2202.99.30..................  Orange juice, fortified with vitamins or minerals,
                               not made from a juice having a degree of
                               concentration of 1.5 or more.
2202.99.35..................  Orange juice, fortified with vitamins or minerals,
                               nesoi.
2504.10.10..................  Natural graphite, crystalline flake (not including
                               flake dust).
2504.10.50..................  Natural graphite in powder or flakes other than
                               crystalline flake.
2504.90.00..................  Natural graphite, other than in powder or in flakes.
2507.00.00..................  Kaolin and other kaolinic clays, whether or not
                               calcined.
2510.10.00..................  Natural calcium phosphates, natural aluminum calcium
                               phosphates, unground.
2510.20.00..................  Natural calcium phosphates, natural aluminum calcium
                               phosphates, ground.
2511.10.10..................  Natural barium sulfate (barytes), ground............
2511.10.50..................  Natural barium sulfate (barytes), not ground........
2519.10.00..................  Natural magnesium carbonate (magnesite).............
2519.90.10..................  Fused magnesia; dead-burned (sintered) magnesia,
                               whether or not containing small quantities of other
                               oxides added before sintering.
2519.90.20..................  Caustic calcined magnesite..........................
2524.90.00..................  Asbestos other than crocidolite.....................
2525.10.00..................  Crude mica and mica rifted into sheets or splittings
2529.21.00..................  Fluorspar, containing by weight 97 percent or less
                               of calcium fluoride.
2529.22.00..................  Fluorspar, containing by weight more than 97 percent
                               of calcium fluoride.
2530.20.10..................  Kieserite...........................................
2530.20.20..................  Epsom salts (natural magnesium sulfates)............
2530.90.10..................  Natural cryolite; natural chiolite..................
2530.90.20..................  Natural micaceous iron oxides.......................
2530.90.80..................  Other mineral substances, nesoi.....................
2601.11.00..................  Iron ores and concentrates, non-agglomerated........
2601.12.00..................  Iron ores and concentrates, agglomerated............
2602.00.00..................  Manganese ores and concentrates including
                               ferruginous manganese ores and concentrates with
                               manganese content over 20 percent calculated on the
                               dry weight.
2603.00.00..................  Copper ores and concentrates........................
2604.00.00..................  Nickel ores and concentrates........................
2605.00.00..................  Cobalt ores and concentrates........................
2606.00.00..................  Aluminum ores and concentrates......................
2608.00.00..................  Zinc ores and concentrates..........................
2609.00.00..................  Tin ores and concentrates...........................
2610.00.00..................  Chromium ores and concentrates......................
2611.00.30..................  Tungsten ores.......................................
2611.00.60..................  Tungsten concentrates...............................
2612.10.00..................  Uranium ores and concentrates.......................
2612.20.00..................  Thorium ores and concentrates.......................
2613.90.00..................  Molybdenum ores and concentrates, not roasted.......
2614.00.30..................  Synthetic rutile....................................
2614.00.60..................  Titanium ores and concentrates, other than synthetic
                               rutile.
2615.90.30..................  Synthetic tantalum-niobium concentrates.............
2615.90.60..................  Niobium, tantalum or vanadium ores and concentrates,
                               nesoi.
2616.10.00..................  Silver ores and concentrates........................
2617.10.00..................  Antimony ores and concentrates......................
2620.30.00..................  Ash and residues (other than from the manufacture of
                               iron or steel), containing mainly copper.
2620.99.50..................  Slag (other than from the manufacture of iron or
                               steel) containing over 40 percent titanium, and
                               which if containing over 2 percent by weight of
                               copper, lead, or zinc is not to be treated for the
                               recovery thereof.
2701.11.00..................  Coal, anthracite, whether or not pulverized, but not
                               agglomerated.
2701.12.00..................  Coal, bituminous, whether or not pulverized, but not
                               agglomerated.
2701.19.00..................  Coal, other than anthracite or bituminous, whether
                               or not pulverized, but not agglomerated.
2701.20.00..................  Coal, briquettes, ovoids and similar solid fuels
                               manufactured from coal.
2702.10.00..................  Lignite (excluding jet), whether or not pulverized,
                               but not agglomerated.
2702.20.00..................  Lignite (excluding jet), agglomerated...............
2703.00.00..................  Peat (including peat litter), whether or not
                               agglomerated.
2704.00.00..................  Coke and semicoke of coal, lignite or peat, whether
                               or not agglomerated; retort carbon.
2705.00.00..................  Coal gas, water gas, producer gas and similar gases,
                               other than petroleum gases and other gaseous
                               hydrocarbons.
2706.00.00..................  Tars (including reconstituted tars), distilled from
                               coal, lignite or peat, and other mineral tars,
                               whether dehydrated or partially distilled.
2707.10.00..................  Benzene, from the distillation of high-temperature
                               coal tar, or in which the weight of the aromatic
                               constituents exceeds that of the nonaromatic
                               constituents.
2707.20.00..................  Toluene, from the distillation of high-temperature
                               coal tar, or in which the weight of aromatic
                               constituents exceeds that of the nonaromatic
                               constituents.
2707.30.00..................  Xylenes, from the distillation of high-temperature
                               coal tar, or in which the weight of the aromatic
                               constituents exceeds that of the nonaromatic
                               constituents.
2707.40.00..................  Naphthalene, from the distillation of high-
                               temperature coal tar, or in which the weight of the
                               aromatic constituents exceeds that of the
                               nonaromatic constituents.
2707.50.00..................  Aromatic hydrocarbon mixtures (from the distillation
                               of high-temperature coal tar, or similar products
                               in which the weight of the aromatic constituents
                               exceeds that of the nonaromatic constituents),
                               other than Benzene, Toluene, Xylenes, and
                               Naphathalene, in which 65% or more by volume
                               (including losses) distills at 250 C by the ISO
                               3405 method (equivalent to the ASTM D 86 method).

[[Page 33867]]

 
2707.91.00..................  Creosote oils, from the distillation of high-
                               temperature coal tar or similar products in which
                               the weight of the aromatic constituents exceeds
                               that of the nonaromatic constituents.
2707.99.10..................  Light oil, from the distillation of high-temperature
                               coal tar or similar products in which the weight of
                               the aromatic constituents exceeds that of the
                               nonaromatic constituents.
2707.99.20..................  Picolines, from the distillation of high-temperature
                               coal tar or similar products in which the weight of
                               the aromatic constituents exceeds that of the
                               nonaromatic constituents.
2707.99.40..................  Carbazole, from the distillation of high-temperature
                               coal tar or similar products in which the weight of
                               the aromatic constituents exceeds that of the
                               nonaromatic constituents, having a purity of 65
                               percent or more by weight.
2707.99.51..................  Phenols, from the distillation of high-temperature
                               coal tar or similar products in which the weight of
                               aromatic constituents exceeds that of nonaromatic
                               constituents, containing more than 50 percent by
                               weight of hydroxybenzene.
2707.99.55..................  Metacresol, orthocresol, paracresol, and
                               metaparacresol, from the distillation of high-
                               temperature coal tar or similar products where the
                               weight of the aromatic constituents exceeds that of
                               the nonaromatic constituents, having a purity of 75
                               percent or more by weight.
2707.99.59..................  Phenols, nesoi......................................
2707.99.90..................  Other products of the distillation of high-
                               temperature coal tar and similar products in which
                               the weight of the aromatic constituents exceed that
                               of the nonaromatic constituents, nesoi.
2708.10.00..................  Pitch, obtained from coal tar or other mineral tars.
2708.20.00..................  Pitch coke, obtained from coal tar or other mineral
                               tars.
2709.00.10..................  Petroleum oils and oils from bituminous minerals,
                               crude, testing under 25 degrees A.P.I.
2709.00.20..................  Petroleum oils and oils from bituminous minerals,
                               crude, testing 25 degrees A.P.I. or more.
2710.12.15..................  Light oil motor fuel from petroleum oils and oils
                               from bituminous minerals (other than crude) and
                               containing by weight 70 percent or more of
                               petroleum oils or oils from bituminous minerals.
2710.12.18..................  Light oil motor fuel blending stock from petroleum
                               oils and oils from bituminous minerals (other than
                               crude) containing by weight 70 percent or more from
                               petroleum oils or oils from bituminous minerals.
2710.12.25..................  Naphthas (except motor fuel or motor fuel blending
                               stock).
2710.12.45..................  Light oil mixtures of hydrocarbons nesoi which
                               contain by weight not over 50 percent of any single
                               hydrocarbon compound.
2710.12.90..................  Light oils and preparations, from petroleum oils and
                               oils from bituminous minerals or preparations nesoi
                               containing by weight 70 percent or more of
                               petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous
                               minerals.
2710.19.06..................  Distillate and residual fuel oils (including blended
                               fuel oils), derived from petroleum or oils from
                               bituminous minerals, testing under 25 degrees A.P.I.
2710.19.11..................  Distillate and residual fuel oils (including blended
                               fuel oils), derived from petroleum oils or oils
                               from bituminous minerals, testing 25 degrees A.P.I.
                               or more.
2710.19.16..................  Kerosene-type jet fuel, from petroleum oils and oils
                               of bituminous minerals (other than crude) or
                               preparations containing by weight 70 percent or
                               more of petroleum oils or oils obtained from
                               bituminous minerals.
2710.19.24..................  Kerosene motor fuel (except kerosene-type jet fuel),
                               from petroleum oils and oils of bituminous minerals
                               (other than crude) or preparations containing by
                               weight 70 percent or more of petroleum oils or oils
                               obtained from bituminous minerals.
2710.19.25..................  Kerosene motor fuel blending stock (except kerosene-
                               type jet fuel), from petroleum oils and oils of
                               bituminous minerals (other than crude) or
                               preparations containing by weight 70 percent or
                               more of petroleum oils or oils obtained from
                               bituminous minerals.
2710.19.26..................  Kerosene (except kerosene-type jet fuel, kerosene
                               motor fuel, and kerosene motor fuel blending
                               stock), from petroleum oils and oils of bituminous
                               minerals (other than crude) or preparations
                               containing by weight 70 percent or more of
                               petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous
                               minerals.
2710.19.30..................  Lubricating oils, with or without additives, from
                               petroleum oils and oils of bituminous minerals
                               (other than crude) or preparations containing by
                               weight 70 percent or more of petroleum oils or oils
                               obtained from bituminous minerals.
2710.19.35..................  Lubricating greases, containing not over 10 percent
                               by weight of salts of fatty acids of animal or
                               vegetable origin, from petroleum oils and oils of
                               bituminous minerals (other than crude) or
                               preparations containing by weight 70 percent or
                               more of petroleum oils or oils obtained from
                               bituminous minerals.
2710.19.40..................  Lubricating greases, containing 10 percent or more
                               by weight of salts of fatty acids of animal or
                               vegetable origin, from petroleum oils and oils of
                               bituminous minerals (other than crude) or
                               preparations containing by weight 70 percent or
                               more of petroleum oils or oils obtained from
                               bituminous minerals.
2710.19.45..................  Mixture of hydrocarbons nesoi, which contain by
                               weight not over 50 percent of any single
                               hydrocarbon compound, from petroleum oils and oils
                               of bituminous minerals (other than crude) or
                               preparations containing by weight 70 percent or
                               more of petroleum oils or oils obtained from
                               bituminous minerals.
2710.19.90..................  Petroleum oils and oils from bituminous minerals or
                               preparations nesoi containing by weight 70 percent
                               or more of petroleum oils or oils obtained from
                               bituminous minerals.
2710.20.05..................  Distillate and residual fuel oils (including blended
                               fuel oils), testing under 25 degrees A.P.I., from
                               petroleum oils and oils of bituminous minerals
                               (other than crude) or preparations nesoi containing
                               by weight 70 percent or more of petroleum oils or
                               oils obtained from bituminous minerals, containing
                               biodiesel, other than waste oils.
2710.20.10..................  Distillate and residual fuel oils (including blended
                               fuel oils), testing 25 degrees A.P.I. or more, from
                               petroleum oils and oils of bituminous minerals
                               (other than crude) or preparations nesoi containing
                               by weight 70 percent or more of petroleum oils or
                               oils obtained from bituminous minerals, containing
                               biodiesel, and other than waste oils.
2710.20.15..................  Kerosene-type jet fuel, motor fuel or motor fuel
                               blending stock, from petroleum oils and oils of
                               bituminous minerals (other than crude) or
                               preparations nesoi containing by weight 70 percent
                               or more of petroleum oils or oils obtained from
                               bituminous minerals, containing biodiesel, and
                               other than waste oils.
2710.20.25..................  Kerosene (except kerosene-type jet fuel, motor fuel
                               or motor fuel blending stock, from petroleum oils
                               and oils of bituminous minerals (other than crude)
                               or preparations nesoi containing by weight 70
                               percent or more of petroleum oils or oils obtained
                               from bituminous minerals, containing biodiesel,
                               other than waste oils.

[[Page 33868]]

 
2710.91.00..................  Waste oils containing polychlorinated biphenyls
                               (PCBs), polychlorinated terphenyls (PCTs) or
                               polybrominated biphenyls (PBBs).
2710.99.05..................  Wastes of distillate and residual fuel oil
                               (including blends) derived from petroleum oil or
                               bituminous minerals, testing under 25 degrees A.P.I.
2710.99.10..................  Wastes of distillate and residual fuel oil
                               (including blends) derived from petroleum oil or
                               bituminous minerals, testing 25 degrees A.P.I. or
                               more.
2710.99.16..................  Waste motor fuel or motor fuel blending stock.......
2710.99.21..................  Waste kerosene or naphthas..........................
2710.99.31..................  Waste lubricating oils, with or without additives...
2710.99.32..................  Waste lubricating greases, containing not over 10
                               percent by weight of fatty acids of animal
                               (including marine animal) or vegetable origin.
2710.99.39..................  Other wastes of lubricating oils and greases........
2710.99.45..................  Waste oil mixtures of hydrocarbons nesoi containing
                               not over 50 percent of any single hydrocarbon
                               compound.
2710.99.90..................  Other waste oils....................................
2711.11.00..................  Natural gas, liquefied..............................
2711.12.00..................  Propane, liquefied..................................
2711.13.00..................  Butanes, liquefied..................................
2711.14.00..................  Ethylene, propylene, butylene and butadiene,
                               liquefied.
2711.19.00..................  Liquefied petroleum gases and other gaseous
                               hydrocarbons, nesoi.
2711.21.00..................  Natural gas, in gaseous state.......................
2711.29.00..................  Petroleum gases and other gaseous hydrocarbons,
                               except natural gas.
2712.10.00..................  Petroleum jelly.....................................
2712.20.00..................  Paraffin wax (whether or not colored), obtained by
                               synthesis or other process and less than 0.75
                               percent oil by weight.
2712.90.10..................  Montan wax (whether or not colored), obtained by
                               synthesis or other process.
2712.90.20..................  Mineral waxes (i.e., paraffin wax with 0.75 percent
                               or more oil by weight, microcrystalline wax, slack
                               lignite and peat waxes, ozokerite), obtained by
                               synthesis.
2713.11.00..................  Coke, petroleum, not calcined.......................
2713.12.00..................  Coke, petroleum coke, calcined......................
2713.20.00..................  Petroleum bitumen...................................
2713.90.00..................  Residues (except petroleum coke or petroleum
                               bitumen) of petroleum oils or of oils obtained from
                               bituminous materials.
2714.10.00..................  Bituminous or oil shale and tar sands...............
2714.90.00..................  Bitumen and asphalt, natural; asphaltites and
                               asphaltic rocks.
2715.00.00..................  Bituminous mixtures based on natural asphalt,
                               natural bitumen, petroleum bitumen, mineral tar or
                               mineral tar pitch.
2716.00.00..................  Electrical energy...................................
2801.20.00..................  Iodine..............................................
2804.29.00..................  Rare gases, other than argon........................
2804.50.00..................  Boron; tellurium....................................
2804.61.00..................  Silicon containing by weight not less than 99.99
                               percent of silicon.
2804.69.10..................  Silicon, containing by weight less than 99.99
                               percent but not less than 99 percent of silicon.
2804.69.50..................  Silicon, containing by weight less than 99 percent
                               of silicon.
2804.80.00..................  Arsenic.............................................
2804.90.00..................  Selenium............................................
2805.19.10..................  Strontium...........................................
2805.19.20..................  Barium..............................................
2805.19.90..................  Alkali metals, other than strontium and barium......
2805.30.00..................  Rare-earth metals, scandium and yttrium, whether or
                               not intermixed or interalloyed.
2811.11.00..................  Hydrogen fluoride (Hydrofluoric acid)...............
2811.19.10..................  Arsenic acid........................................
2811.29.10..................  Arsenic trioxide....................................
2811.29.20..................  Selenium dioxide....................................
2812.19.00..................  Other chlorides and chloride oxides.................
2813.90.10..................  Arsenic sulfides....................................
2815.20.00..................  Potassium hydroxide (Caustic potash)................
2816.10.00..................  Hydroxide and peroxide of magnesium.................
2816.40.10..................  Oxides, hydroxides and peroxides of strontium.......
2816.40.20..................  Oxides, hydroxides and peroxides of barium..........
2817.00.00..................  Zinc oxide; zinc peroxide...........................
2818.10.10..................  Artificial corundum, crude..........................
2818.10.20..................  Artificial corundum, in grains, or ground,
                               pulverized or refined.
2818.20.00..................  Aluminum oxide, other than artificial corundum......
2820.10.00..................  Manganese dioxide...................................
2821.10.00..................  Iron oxides and hydroxides..........................
2821.20.00..................  Earth colors containing 70 percent or more by weight
                               of combined iron evaluated as Fe2O3.
2822.00.00..................  Cobalt oxides and hydroxides; commercial cobalt
                               oxides.
2823.00.00..................  Titanium oxides.....................................
2825.20.00..................  Lithium oxide and hydroxide.........................
2825.30.00..................  Vanadium oxides and hydroxides......................
2825.40.00..................  Nickel oxides and hydroxides........................
2825.50.30..................  Copper hydroxides...................................
2825.60.00..................  Germanium oxides and zirconium dioxide..............

[[Page 33869]]

 
2825.80.00..................  Antimony oxides.....................................
2825.90.15..................  Niobium oxide.......................................
2825.90.20..................  Tin oxides..........................................
2825.90.30..................  Tungsten oxides.....................................
2825.90.90..................  Other inorganic bases; other metal oxides,
                               hydroxides and peroxides, nesoi.
2826.12.00..................  Fluorides of aluminum...............................
2826.30.00..................  Sodium hexafluoroaluminate (Synthetic cryolite).....
2826.90.90..................  Other complex fluorine salts, nesoi.................
2827.31.00..................  Magnesium chloride..................................
2827.39.25..................  Tin chlorides.......................................
2827.39.45..................  Barium chloride.....................................
2827.39.60..................  Cobalt chlorides....................................
2827.39.90..................  Chlorides, nesoi....................................
2827.41.00..................  Chloride oxides and chloride hydroxides of copper...
2827.49.50..................  Chloride oxides and chloride hydroxides other than
                               of copper or of vanadium.
2827.59.51..................  Other bromides and bromide oxides, other than
                               ammonium, calcium or zinc.
2827.60.10..................  Iodide and iodide oxide of calcium or copper........
2827.60.51..................  Iodides and iodide oxides, other than of calcium,
                               copper or potassium.
2833.21.00..................  Magnesium sulfate...................................
2833.24.00..................  Nickel sulfate......................................
2833.25.00..................  Copper sulfate......................................
2833.27.00..................  Barium sulfate......................................
2833.29.10..................  Cobalt sulfate......................................
2833.29.45..................  Zinc sulfate........................................
2833.29.51..................  Other sulfates nesoi................................
2834.21.00..................  Potassium nitrate...................................
2834.29.20..................  Strontium nitrate...................................
2834.29.51..................  Nitrates, nesoi.....................................
2836.60.00..................  Barium carbonate....................................
2836.91.00..................  Lithium carbonates..................................
2836.92.00..................  Strontium carbonate.................................
2836.99.10..................  Cobalt carbonates...................................
2836.99.50..................  Carbonates nesoi, and peroxocarbonates
                               (percarbonates).
2839.19.00..................  Sodium silicate.....................................
2841.80.00..................  Tungstates (wolframates)............................
2841.90.20..................  Ammonium perrhenate.................................
2841.90.40..................  Aluminates..........................................
2843.29.01..................  Silver compounds, other than silver nitrate.........
2843.30.00..................  Gold compounds......................................
2843.90.00..................  Inorganic or organic compounds of precious metals,
                               excluding those of silver and gold; amalgams of
                               precious metals.
2844.10.10..................  Natural uranium metal...............................
2844.10.20..................  Natural uranium compounds...........................
2844.20.00..................  Uranium enriched in U235 and plutonium and their
                               compounds; alloys, dispersions, ceramic products
                               and mixtures containing these products.
2844.30.20..................  Compounds of uranium depleted in U235...............
2844.30.50..................  Uranium depleted in U235, thorium; alloys,
                               dispersions, ceramic products and mixtures of these
                               products and their compounds.
2844.43.00..................  Other radioactive elements, isotopes, compounds,
                               nesoi; alloys, dispersions, ceramic products and
                               mixtures thereof.
2845.90.01..................  Isotopes not in heading 2844 and their compounds
                               other than boron, lithium and helium.
2846.10.00..................  Cerium compounds....................................
2846.90.20..................  Mixtures of rare-earth oxides or of rare-earth
                               chlorides.
2846.90.40..................  Yttrium bearing materials and compounds containing
                               by weight more than 19 percent but less than 85
                               percent yttrium oxide equivalent.
2846.90.80..................  Compounds, inorganic or organic, of rare-earth
                               metals, of yttrium or of scandium, or of mixtures
                               of these metals, nesoi.
2849.20.10..................  Silicon carbide, crude..............................
2849.20.20..................  Silicon carbide, in grains, or ground, pulverized or
                               refined.
2849.90.30..................  Tungsten carbide....................................
2853.90.10..................  Phosphor copper containing more than 15 percent by
                               weight of phosphorus, excluding ferrosphosphorus.
2853.90.90..................  Other phosphides, excluding ferrophosphorous, nesoi.
2903.19.05..................  1,2-dichloropropane (propylene dichloride) and
                               dichlorobutanes.
2903.19.10..................  Hexachloroethane and tetrachloroethane..............
2903.19.30..................  Sec-Butyl chloride..................................
2903.19.60..................  Other saturated chlorinated hydrocarbons, nesoi.....
2903.45.10..................  1,1,1,2-Tetrafluoroethane (HFC-134a) and 1,1,2,2-
                               tetrafluoroethane (HFC-134).
2903.51.10..................  2,3,3,3-Tetrafluoropropene (HFO-1234yf), 1,3,3,3-
                               tetrafluoropropene (HFO-1234ze) and (Z)-1,1,1,4,4,4-
                               hexafluoro-2-butene (HFO-1336mzz).
2903.59.90..................  Other unsaturated fluorinated derivatives of acyclic
                               hydrocarbons.
2903.69.90..................  Other brominated or iodinated derivatives of acyclic
                               hydrocarbons.
2903.78.00..................  Other perhalogenated acyclic hydrocarbon
                               derivatives, nesoi.
2903.79.90..................  Other halogenated derivatives of acyclic
                               hydrocarbons containing two or more different
                               halogens, nesoi.

[[Page 33870]]

 
2903.89.15..................  Halogenated products derived in whole or in part
                               from benzene or other aromatic hydrocarbons,
                               described in additional U.S. note 3 to section VI
                               of the HTSUS.
2903.89.20..................  Halogenated derivatives derived in whole or in part
                               from benzene or other aromatic hydrocarbons, nesoi.
2903.89.70..................  Other halogenated derivatives of cyclanic, cyclenic
                               or cycloterpenic hydrocarbons not derived from
                               benzene or other aromatic hydrocarbons.
2903.92.00..................  Hexachlorobenzene (ISO) and DDT (clofenotane (INN),
                               (1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)ethane).
2904.99.40..................  Sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives of
                               aromatic products described in additional U.S. note
                               3 to section VI of the HTSUS.
2905.29.90..................  Unsaturated monohydric alcohols, other than allyl
                               alcohol or acyclic terpene alcohols.
2905.39.90..................  Dihydric alcohols (diols), nesoi....................
2905.59.10..................  Halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated
                               derivatives of monohydric alcohols.
2905.59.90..................  Halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated
                               derivatives of acyclic alcohols, nesoi.
2906.19.50..................  Other cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic alcohols
                               and their halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or
                               nitrosated derivatives.
2906.29.60..................  Other aromatic alcohols and their halogenated,
                               sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives.
2907.29.90..................  Other polyphenols, nesoi............................
2908.19.60..................  Other halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or
                               nitrosated derivatives of phenol or phenol-alcohols.
2909.19.18..................  Ethers of acyclic monohydric alcohols and their
                               derivatives, nesoi.
2909.20.00..................  Cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic ethers and their
                               halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated
                               derivatives.
2909.30.60..................  Other aromatic ethers and their halogenated,
                               sulfonated, nitrated, or nitrosated derivatives,
                               nesoi.
2909.49.10..................  Other aromatic ether-alcohols, their halogenated,
                               sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives
                               described in additional U.S. note 3 to section VI
                               of the HTSUS.
2909.49.15..................  Aromatic ether-alcohols and their halogenated,
                               sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives,
                               nesoi.
2909.49.20..................  Nonaromatic glycerol ethers.........................
2909.49.60..................  Other non-aromatic ether-alcohols and their
                               halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated
                               derivatives.
2909.50.40..................  Odoriferous or flavoring compounds of ether-phenols,
                               ether-alcohol-phenols and their halogenated,
                               sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives.
2909.50.45..................  Ether-phenols, ether-alcohol-phenols and their
                               halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated
                               derivatives nesoi, described in additional U.S.
                               note 3 to section VI of the HTSUS.
2909.50.50..................  Ether-phenols, ether-alcohol-phenols and their
                               halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated
                               derivatives, nesoi.
2912.19.50..................  Acyclic aldehydes without other oxygen function,
                               nesoi.
2912.49.26..................  Other aromatic aldehyde-alcohols, aldehyde-ethers,
                               aldehyde-phenols and aldehydes with other oxygen
                               function.
2914.19.00..................  Acyclic ketones without other oxygen function, nesoi
2914.40.90..................  Nonaromatic ketone-alcohols and ketone-aldehydes,
                               nesoi.
2914.50.30..................  Aromatic ketone-phenols and ketones with other
                               oxygen function.
2914.50.50..................  Nonaromatic ketone-phenols and ketones with other
                               oxygen function.
2914.62.00..................  Coenzyme Q10 (ubidecarenone (INN)...................
2914.69.21..................  Quinone drugs.......................................
2914.69.90..................  Quinones, nesoi.....................................
2914.79.40..................  Other halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or
                               nitrosated derivatives of aromatic ketones and
                               quinones whether or not with other oxygen function.
2915.29.30..................  Cobalt acetates.....................................
2915.39.31..................  Aromatic esters of acetic acid, described in
                               additional U.S. note 3 to section VI of the HTSUS.
2915.39.35..................  Aromatic esters of acetic acid, nesoi...............
2915.39.47..................  Acetates of polyhydric alcohols or of polyhydric
                               alcohol ethers.
2915.39.90..................  Other non-aromatic esters of acetic acid............
2915.90.10..................  Fatty acids of animal or vegetable origin, nesoi....
2915.90.14..................  Valproic acid.......................................
2915.90.18..................  Saturated acyclic monocarboxylic acids, nesoi.......
2915.90.20..................  Aromatic anhydrides, halides, peroxides and
                               peroxyacids, of saturated acyclic monocarboxylic
                               acids, and their derivatives, nesoi.
2915.90.50..................  Nonaromatic anhydrides, halides, peroxides and
                               peroxyacids, of saturated acyclic monocarboxylic
                               acids, and their derivatives, nesoi.
2916.19.30..................  Unsaturated acyclic monocarboxylic acids, nesoi.....
2916.19.50..................  Unsaturated acyclic monocarboxylic acid anhydrides,
                               halides, peroxides, peroxyacids and their
                               derivatives, nesoi.
2916.20.50..................  Cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic monocarboxylic
                               acids, their anhydrides, halides, peroxides,
                               peroxyacids and their derivatives, nesoi.
2916.31.50..................  Benzoic acid esters, nesoi..........................
2916.39.46..................  Aromatic monocarboxylic acids, their anhydrides,
                               halides, peroxides, peroxyacids and their
                               derivatives, described in additional U.S. note 3 to
                               section VI of the HTSUS.
2916.39.79..................  Other aromatic monocarboxylic acids, their
                               anhydrides, halides, peroxides, peroxyacids and
                               their derivatives.
2917.13.00..................  Azelaic acid, sebacic acid, their salts and esters..
2917.19.10..................  Ferrous fumarate....................................
2917.19.70..................  Acyclic polycarboxylic acids and their derivatives
                               (excluding plasticizers).
2917.34.01..................  Esters of orthophthalic acid, nesoi.................
2917.39.30..................  Aromatic polycarboxylic acids, their anhydrides,
                               halides, peroxides, peroxyacids and their
                               derivatives nesoi, described in additional U.S.
                               note 3 to section VI of the HTSUS.
2918.11.51..................  Salts and esters of lactic acid.....................
2918.13.50..................  Salts and esters of tartaric acid, nesoi............
2918.16.50..................  Salts and esters of gluconic acid, nesoi............
2918.19.60..................  Malic acid..........................................

[[Page 33871]]

 
2918.19.90..................  Nonaromatic carboxylic acids with alcohol function,
                               without other oxygen function, and their
                               derivatives, nesoi.
2918.22.10..................  O-Acetylsalicylic acid (Aspirin)....................
2918.22.50..................  Salts and esters of O-acetylsalicylic acid..........
2918.23.30..................  Esters of salicylic acid and their salts, described
                               in additional U.S. note 3 to section VI of the
                               HTSUS.
2918.23.50..................  Esters of salicylic acid and their salts, nesoi.....
2918.29.20..................  Gentisic acid; and Hydroxycinnamic acid and its
                               salts.
2918.29.65..................  Carboxylic acids with phenol function but without
                               other oxygen function, described in additional U.S.
                               note 3 to section VI of the HTSUS.
2918.29.75..................  Other carboxylic acids with phenol function but
                               without other oxygen function and their derivatives
                               (excluding goods of additional U.S. note 3 to
                               section VI of the HTSUS).
2918.30.25..................  Aromatic carboxylic acids with aldehyde or ketone
                               function but without other oxygen function and
                               their derivatives described in additional U.S. note
                               3 to section VI of the HTSUS, nesoi.
2918.30.30..................  Aromatic carboxylic acids with aldehyde or ketone
                               function but without other oxygen function, and
                               their derivatives, nesoi.
2918.30.90..................  Non-aromatic carboxylic acids with aldehyde or
                               ketone function but without other oxygen function,
                               their anhydrides, halides, peroxides, peroxyacids
                               and their derivatives.
2918.99.30..................  Aromatic drugs derived from carboxylic acids with
                               additional oxygen function, and their derivatives,
                               nesoi.
2918.99.43..................  Aromatic carboxylic acids with additional oxygen
                               function and their anhydrides, halides, peroxides,
                               peroxyacids and their derivatives, described in
                               additional U.S. note 3 to section VI of the HTSUS,
                               nesoi.
2918.99.47..................  Other aromatic carboxylic acids with additional
                               oxygen function and their anhydrides, halides,
                               peroxides, peroxyacids and their derivatives
                               (excluding goods described in additional U.S. note
                               3 to section VI of the HTSUS).
2918.99.50..................  Nonaromatic carboxylic acids with additional oxygen
                               function, and their derivatives, nesoi.
2919.90.30..................  Aromatic phosphoric esters and their salts,
                               including lactophosphates, and their derivatives,
                               not used as plasticizers.
2919.90.50..................  Nonaromatic phosphoric esters and their salts,
                               including lactophosphates, and their derivatives.
2920.90.51..................  Nonaromatic esters of inorganic acids of nonmetals,
                               their salts and derivatives, excluding esters of
                               hydrogen halides, nesoi.
2921.19.11..................  Mono- and triethylamines; mono-, di-, and tri(propyl-
                                and butyl-) monoamines; salts of any of the
                               foregoing.
2921.19.61..................  N,N-Dialkyl (methyl, ethyl, n-Propyl or Isopropyl)-2-
                               Chloroethylamines and their protonated salts;
                               Acyclic monoamines and their derivatives, nesoi.
2921.29.00..................  Acyclic polyamines, their derivatives and salts,
                               other than ethylenediamine or hexamethylenediamine
                               and their salts.
2921.30.10..................  Cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic mono- or
                               polyamines, derivatives and salts, from any
                               aromatic compound described in additional U.S. note
                               3 to section VI of the HTSUS.
2921.30.50..................  Cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic mono- or
                               polyamines, and their derivatives and salts,
                               derived from any nonaromatic compounds.
2921.42.90..................  Other aniline derivatives and their salts...........
2921.46.00..................  Amfetamine (INN), benzfetamine (INN), dexamfetamine
                               (INN), etilamfetamine (INN), and other specified
                               INNs; salts thereof.
2921.49.38..................  Aromatic monoamine antidepressants, tranquilizers
                               and other psychotherapeutic agents.
2921.49.43..................  Aromatic monoamine drugs, nesoi.....................
2921.49.45..................  Aromatic monoamines and their derivatives and salts
                               thereof nesoi, described in additional U.S. note 3
                               to section VI of the HTSUS.
2921.49.50..................  Aromatic monoamines and their derivatives and salts
                               thereof, nesoi.
2921.59.80..................  Aromatic polyamines and their derivatives and salts
                               thereof nesoi.
2922.11.00..................  Monoethanolamine and its salts......................
2922.14.00..................  Dextropropoxyphene (INN) and its salts..............
2922.19.09..................  Aromatic amino-alcohols drugs, their ethers and
                               esters, other than those containing more than one
                               kind of oxygen function, and their salts thereof;
                               nesoi.
2922.19.20..................  4,4'-Bis(dimethylamino)benzhydrol (Michler's hydrol)
                               and other specified aromatic amino-alcohols, their
                               ethers and esters, and salts thereof.
2922.19.33..................  N1-(2-Hydroxyethyl-2-nitro-1,4-phenylendiamine;
                               N1,N4,N4-tris(2-hydroxyethyl)-2-nitro-1,4-
                               phenylenediamine; and other specified chemicals.
2922.19.60..................  Aromatic amino-alcohols, their ethers and esters,
                               other than those containing more than one oxygen
                               function, described in additional U.S. note 3 to
                               section VI of the HTSUS.
2922.19.70..................  Other aromatic amino-alcohols, their ethers and
                               esters, other than those containing more than one
                               oxygen function (excluding goods described in
                               additional U.S. note 3 to section VI of the HTSUS).
2922.19.90..................  Salts of triethanolamine............................
2922.19.96..................  Amino-alcohols, other than those containing more
                               than one kind of oxygen function, their ethers and
                               esters and salts thereof, nesoi.
2922.29.27..................  Drugs of amino-naphthols and -phenols, their ethers
                               and esters, except those containing more than one
                               oxygen function, and salts thereof, nesoi.
2922.29.61..................  Amino-naphthols and other amino-phenols and their
                               derivatives, described in additional U.S. note 3 to
                               section VI of the HTSUS.
2922.29.81..................  Amino-naphthols and other amino-phenols, their
                               ethers and esters (not containing more than one
                               oxygen function), and salts thereof, nesoi.
2922.31.00..................  Amfepramone (INN), methadone (INN) and normethadone
                               (INN), and salts thereof.
2922.39.25..................  Aromatic amino-aldehydes, -ketones and -quinones,
                               other than those with more than one oxygen
                               function, and salts thereof, described in
                               additional U.S. note 3 to section VI of the HTSUS.
2922.39.45..................  Aromatic amino-aldehydes, -ketones and -quinones,
                               other than those with more than one oxygen
                               function, and salts thereof, nesoi.

[[Page 33872]]

 
2922.39.50..................  Nonaromatic amino-aldehydes, -ketones and -quinones,
                               other than those with more than one kind of oxygen
                               function, and salts thereof, nesoi.
2922.41.00..................  Lysine and its esters and salts thereof.............
2922.42.50..................  Glutamic acid and its salts, other than monosodium
                               glutamate.
2922.44.00..................  Tildine (INN) and its salts.........................
2922.49.10..................  m-Aminobenzoic acid, technical; and other specified
                               aromatic amino-acids and their esters, except those
                               with more than one oxygen function.
2922.49.26..................  Aromatic amino-acids drugs and their esters, not
                               containing more than one kind of oxygen function,
                               nesoi.
2922.49.30..................  Aromatic amino-acids and their esters, excluding
                               those with more than one oxygen function, and their
                               salts, described in additional U.S. note 3 to
                               section VI of the HTSUS.
2922.49.37..................  Aromatic amino-acids and their esters, not
                               containing more than one oxygen function (excluding
                               goods described in additional U.S. note 3 to
                               section VI of the HTSUS), nesoi.
2922.49.49..................  Nonaromatic amino-acids, other than those containing
                               more than one oxygen function, other than glycine.
2922.49.80..................  Non-aromatic esters of amino-acids, other than those
                               containing more than one oxygen function, and salts
                               thereof.
2922.50.07..................  3,4-Diaminophenetole dihydrogen sulfate, 2-nitro-5-
                               [(2,3-dihydroxy)propoxy]-N-methylaniline and other
                               specified aromatic chemicals.
2922.50.10..................  Specified aromatic amino-alcohol-phenols, amino-acid-
                               phenols and other amino-compounds with oxygen
                               function.
2922.50.11..................  Salts of d(-)-p-Hydroxyphenylglycine ((R)- [alpha]-
                               Amino-4-hydroxybenzeneacetic acid).
2922.50.13..................  Isoetharine hydrochloride and other specified
                               aromatic drugs of amino-compounds with oxygen
                               function.
2922.50.14..................  Other aromatic cardiovascular drugs of amino-
                               compounds with oxygen function.
2922.50.17..................  Aromatic dermatological agents and local anesthetics
                               of amino-compounds with oxygen function.
2922.50.25..................  Aromatic drugs of amino-compounds with oxygen
                               function, nesoi.
2922.50.35..................  Aromatic amino-alcohol-phenols, amino-acid-phenols
                               and other amino-compounds with oxygen function
                               described in additional U.S. note 3 to section VI
                               of the HTSUS.
2922.50.40..................  Aromatic amino-alcohol-phenols, amino-acid-phenols
                               and other amino-compounds with oxygen function,
                               nesoi.
2922.50.50..................  Nonaromatic amino-alcohol-phenols, amino-acid-
                               phenols and other amino-compounds with oxygen
                               function.
2923.10.00..................  Choline and its salts...............................
2923.20.20..................  Lecithins and other phosphoaminolipids, nesoi.......
2923.90.01..................  Quaternary ammonium salts and hydroxides, whether or
                               not chemically defined, nesoi.
2924.11.00..................  Meprobamate (INN)...................................
2924.19.11..................  Acyclic amides (including acyclic carbamates).......
2924.19.80..................  Acyclic amide derivatives and salts thereof; nesoi..
2924.21.16..................  Aromatic ureines and their derivatives, nesoi.......
2924.21.50..................  Nonaromatic ureines and their derivatives; and salts
                               thereof.
2924.29.01..................  p-Acetanisidide; p-acetoacetatoluidide; 4'-amino-N-
                               methylacetanilide; 2,5-dimethoxyacetanilide; and N-
                               (7-hydroxy-1-naphthyl)acetamide.
2924.29.03..................  3,5-Dinitro-o-toluamide.............................
2924.29.10..................  Acetanilide; N-acetylsulfanilyl chloride; aspartame;
                               and 2-methoxy-5-acetamino-N,N-bis(2-
                               acetoxyethyl)aniline.
2924.29.23..................  4-Aminoacetanilide; 2-2-oxamidobis[ethyl-3-(3,5-di-
                               tert-butyl-4-hydroxyphenyl)propionate]; and other
                               specified cyclic amide chemicals.
2924.29.26..................  3-Aminomethoxybenzanilide...........................
2924.29.28..................  N-[[(4-
                               Chlorophenyl)amino]carbonyl]difluorobenzamide; and
                               3,5-dichloro-N-(1,1-dimethyl-2-propynyl)benzamide
                               (pronamide).
2924.29.33..................  3-Hydroxy-2-naphthanilide; 3-hydroxy-2-naphtho-o-
                               toluidide; 3-hydroxy-2-naphtho-o-anisidine; 3-
                               hydroxy-2-naphtho-o-phenetidide; and other.
2924.29.57..................  Diethylaminoacetoxylidide (Lidocaine)...............
2924.29.62..................  Other aromatic cyclic amides and derivatives for use
                               as drugs.
2924.29.71..................  Aromatic cyclic amides and their derivatives,
                               described in additional U.S. note 3 to section VI
                               of the HTSUS, nesoi.
2924.29.77..................  Aromatic cyclic amides (including cyclic
                               carbamates), their derivatives and salts thereof,
                               nesoi.
2924.29.80..................  2,2-Dimethylcyclopropylcarboxamide..................
2924.29.95..................  Other nonaromatic cyclic amides, their derivatives
                               and salts thereof; nesoi.
2925.12.00..................  Glutethimide (INN)..................................
2925.19.42..................  Other aromatic imides, their derivatives and salts
                               thereof; nesoi.
2925.19.91..................  Other non-aromatic imides and their derivatives.....
2925.21.00..................  Chlordimeform (ISO).................................
2925.29.20..................  Aromatic drugs of imines and their derivatives,
                               nesoi.
2925.29.60..................  Aromatic imines, their derivatives and salts thereof
                               (excluding drugs), nesoi.
2925.29.90..................  Non-aromatic imines, their derivatives and salts
                               thereof.
2926.30.10..................  Fenproporex (INN) and its salts.....................
2926.40.00..................  alpha-Phenylacetoacetonitrile.......................
2926.90.14..................  p-Chlorobenzonitrile and verapamil hydrochloride....
2926.90.43..................  Aromatic nitrile-function compounds, nesoi,
                               described in additional U.S. note 3 to section VI
                               of the HTSUS.
2926.90.48..................  Aromatic nitrile-function compounds other than those
                               products described in additional U.S. note 3 to
                               section VI of the HTSUS, nesoi.
2926.90.50..................  Nonaromatic nitrile-function compounds, nesoi.......
2927.00.40..................  Diazo-, azo- or azoxy-compounds, nesoi, described in
                               additional U.S. note 3 to section VI of the HTSUS.
2927.00.50..................  Other diazo-, azo- or azoxy-compounds, nesoi........
2928.00.25..................  Aromatic organic derivatives of hydrazine or of
                               hydroxylamine.
2928.00.30..................  Nonaromatic drugs of organic derivatives of
                               hydrazine or of hydroxylamine, other than Methyl
                               ethyl ketoxime.
2928.00.50..................  Nonaromatic organic derivatives of hydrazine or of
                               hydroxylamine, nesoi.

[[Page 33873]]

 
2929.90.20..................  Aromatic compounds with other nitrogen function,
                               nesoi.
2929.90.50..................  Nonaromatic compounds with other nitrogen functions,
                               except isocyanates.
2930.20.20..................  Aromatic compounds of thiocarbamates and
                               dithiocarbamates, excluding pesticides.
2930.20.90..................  Other non-aromatic thiocarbamates and
                               dithiocarbamates.
2930.30.60..................  Thiuram mono-, di- or tetrasulfides, other than
                               tetramethylthiuram monosulfide.
2930.90.29..................  Other aromatic organo-sulfur compounds (excluding
                               pesticides).
2930.90.49..................  Nonaromatic organo-sulfur acids, nesoi..............
2930.90.92..................  Other non-aromatic organo-sulfur compounds..........
2931.49.00..................  Other non-halogenated organo-phosphorous derivatives
2931.53.00..................  O-(3-chloropropyl) O-[4-nitro-3-
                               (trifluoromethyl)phenyl] methylphosphonothionate.
2931.90.22..................  Drugs of aromatic organo-inorganic compounds........
2931.90.90..................  Other non-aromatic organo-inorganic compounds.......
2932.14.00..................  Sucralose...........................................
2932.19.51..................  Nonaromatic compounds containing an unfused furan
                               ring (whether or not hydrogenated) in the ring.
2932.20.20..................  Aromatic drugs of lactones..........................
2932.20.30..................  Aromatic lactones, nesoi, described in additional
                               U.S. note 3 to section VI of the HTSUS.
2932.20.50..................  Nonaromatic lactones................................
2932.99.61..................  Aromatic heterocyclic compounds with oxygen hetero-
                               atom(s) only, described in additional U.S. note 3
                               to section VI of the HTSUS, nesoi.
2932.99.70..................  Aromatic heterocyclic compounds with oxygen hetero-
                               atom(s) only, nesoi.
2932.99.90..................  Nonaromatic heterocyclic compounds with oxygen
                               hetero-atom(s) only, nesoi.
2933.11.00..................  Phenazone (Antipyrine) and its derivatives..........
2933.19.35..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic drugs of heterocyclic
                               compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only,
                               containing an unfused pyrazole ring.
2933.19.45..................  Nonaromatic drugs of heterocyclic compounds with
                               nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, containing an unfused
                               pyrazole ring.
2933.19.90..................  Other compounds (excluding aromatic or modified
                               aromatic compounds and drugs) containing an unfused
                               pyrazole ring (whether or not hydrogenated) in the
                               structure.
2933.21.00..................  Hydantoin and its derivatives.......................
2933.29.05..................  1-[1-((4-Chloro-2-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)imino)-2-
                               propoxyethyl]-1H-imidazole (triflumizole); and
                               Ethylene thiourea.
2933.29.20..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic drugs of heterocyclic
                               compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only,
                               containing an unfused imidazole ring.
2933.29.35..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic goods, described in
                               additional U.S. note 3 to section VI of the HTSUS,
                               containing an unfused imidazole ring (whether or
                               not hydrogenated) in structure.
2933.29.43..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic goods containing an
                               unfused imidazole ring (whether or not
                               hydrogenated) in the structure (excluding products
                               described in additional U.S. note 3 to section VI
                               of the HTSUS).
2933.29.45..................  Nonaromatic drugs of heterocyclic compounds with
                               nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, containing an unfused
                               imidazole ring, nesoi.
2933.29.60..................  Imidazole...........................................
2933.29.90..................  Other compounds (excluding drugs, aromatic and
                               modified aromatic compounds) containing an unfused
                               imidazole ring (whether or not hydrogenated).
2933.33.01..................  Alfentanil (INN), anileridine (INN), bezitramide
                               (INN), bromazepam (INN), difenoxin (INN), and other
                               specified INNs; salts thereof.
2933.34.00..................  Other fentanyls and their derivatives, containing an
                               unfused pyrazole ring.
2933.35.00..................  3-Quinuclidinol.....................................
2933.37.00..................  N-Phenethyl-4-piperidone (NPP)......................
2933.39.08..................  1-(3-Sulfapropyl)pryidinium hydroxide; N,N-
                               bis(2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-4-piperidinyl)-1,6-
                               hexanediamine; and 5 other specified chemicals.
2933.39.10..................  Collidines, lutidines and picolines.................
2933.39.20..................  p-Chloro-2-benzylpyridine and other specified
                               heterocyclic compounds, with nitrogen hetero-
                               atom(s) only, containing an unfused pyridine ring.
2933.39.21..................  Fungicides of heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen
                               hetero-atom(s) only, containing an unfused pyridine
                               ring.
2933.39.23..................  o-Paraquat dichloride...............................
2933.39.25..................  Herbicides nesoi, of heterocyclic compounds with
                               nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, containing an unfused
                               pyridine ring.
2933.39.27..................  Pesticides nesoi, of heterocyclic compounds with
                               nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, containing an unfused
                               pyridine ring.
2933.39.31..................  Psychotherapeutic agents of heterocyclic compounds
                               with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, containing an
                               unfused pyridine ring, nesoi.
2933.39.41..................  Drugs containing an unfused pyridine ring (whether
                               or not hydrogenated) in the structure, nesoi.
2933.39.61..................  Heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s)
                               only, containing an unfused pyridine ring,
                               described in additional U.S. note 3 to section VI
                               of the HTSUS.
2933.39.92..................  Heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s)
                               only, containing an unfused pyridine ring, nesoi.
2933.41.00..................  Levorphenol (INN) and its salts.....................
2933.49.08..................  4,7-Dichloroquinoline...............................
2933.49.10..................  Ethoxyquin (1,2-Dihydro-6-ethoxy-2,2,4-
                               trimethylquinoline).
2933.49.15..................  8-Methylquinoline and Isoquinoline..................
2933.49.17..................  Ethyl ethyl-6,7,8-trifluoro-1,4-dihydro-4-oxo-3-
                               quinoline carboxylate.
2933.49.20..................  5-Chloro-7-iodo-8-quinolinol (Iodochlorhydroxyquin);
                               Decoquinate; Diiodohydroxyquin; and Oxyquinoline
                               sulfate.
2933.49.26..................  Drugs containing a quinoline or isoquinoline ring-
                               system (whether or not hydrogenated), not further
                               fused, nesoi.
2933.49.30..................  Pesticides of heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen
                               hetero-atom(s) only, containing a quinoline or
                               isoquinoline ring-system, not further fused.

[[Page 33874]]

 
2933.49.60..................  Products described in additional U.S. note 3 to
                               section VI of the HTSUS containing quinoline or
                               isoquinoline ring-system (whether or not
                               hydrogenated), not further fused.
2933.49.70..................  Heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s)
                               only, containing a quinoline ring-system, not
                               further fused, nesoi.
2933.52.10..................  Malonylurea (barbituric acid).......................
2933.52.90..................  Salts of barbituric acid............................
2933.53.00..................  Allobarbital (INN), amobarbital (INN), barbital
                               (INN), butalbital (INN), butobarbital, and other
                               specified INNs; salts thereof.
2933.54.00..................  Other derivatives of malonylurea (barbituric acid);
                               salts thereof.
2933.59.10..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic herbicides of
                               heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s)
                               only, containing a pyrimidine or piperazine ring.
2933.59.15..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic pesticides nesoi, of
                               heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s)
                               only, containing a pyrimidine or piperazine ring.
2933.59.18..................  Nonaromatic pesticides of heterocyclic compounds
                               with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, containing a
                               pyrimidine or piperazine ring, nesoi.
2933.59.21..................  Antihistamines, including those principally used as
                               antinauseants.
2933.59.22..................  Nicarbazin and trimethoprim.........................
2933.59.36..................  Anti-infective agents nesoi, of heterocyclic
                               compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only,
                               containing a pyrimidine or piperazine ring.
2933.59.46..................  Psychotherapeutic agents of heterocyclic compounds
                               with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, containing a
                               pyrimidine or piperazine ring, nesoi.
2933.59.53..................  Other aromatic or modified aromatic drugs containing
                               a pyrimidine ring (whether or not hydrogenated) or
                               piperazine ring in the structure.
2933.59.59..................  Nonaromatic drugs of heterocyclic compounds nesoi,
                               with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, containing a
                               pyrimidine or piperazine ring.
2933.59.70..................  Aromatic heterocyclic compounds nesoi, with nitrogen
                               hetero-atom(s) only, containing a pyrimidine or
                               piperazine ring, described in additional U.S. note
                               3 to section VI of the HTSUS.
2933.59.80..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic heterocyclic compounds
                               nesoi, with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only,
                               containing a pyrimidine or piperazine ring.
2933.59.85..................  2-Amino-4-chloro-6-methoxypyrimidine; 2-amino-4,6-
                               dimethoxypyrimidine; and 6-methyluracil.
2933.59.95..................  Other (excluding aromatic or modified aromatic)
                               compounds containing a pyrimidine ring (whether or
                               not hydrogenated) or piperazine ring in the
                               structure.
2933.69.60..................  Other compounds containing an unfused triazine ring
                               (whether or not hydrogenated) in the structure.
2933.72.00..................  Clobazam (INN) and methyprylon (INN)................
2933.79.08..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic lactams with nitrogen
                               hetero-atoms only, described in additional U.S.
                               note 3 to section VI of the HTSUS.
2933.79.15..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic lactams, nesoi........
2933.79.85..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic lactams with nitrogen
                               hetero-atoms only, nesoi.
2933.91.00..................  Alprazolam (INN), camazepam (INN), chlordiazepoxide
                               (INN), clonazepam (INN), clorazepate, and other
                               specified INNs; salts thereof.
2933.99.01..................  Butyl (R)-2-[4-(5-triflouromethyl-2-
                               pyridinyloxy)phenoxy]propanoate.
2933.99.02..................  2-[4-[(6-Chloro-2-quinoxalinyl)oxy]phenoxy]propionic
                               acid, ethyl ester; and 1 other specified aromatic
                               chemical.
2933.99.05..................  Acridine and indole.................................
2933.99.06..................  [alpha]-Butyl-[alpha]-(4-chlorophenyl)-1H-1,2,4-
                               triazole-1-propanenitrile (Mycolbutanil); and one
                               other specified aromatic chemical.
2933.99.08..................  Acetoacetyl-5-aminobenzimidazolone; 1,3,3-Trimethyl-
                               2-methyleneindoline; and two other specified
                               aromatic chemicals.
2933.99.11..................  Carbazole...........................................
2933.99.12..................  6-Bromo-5-methyl-1H-imidazo-(4,5-b)pyridine; 2-sec-
                               butyl-4-tert-butyl-6-(benzotriazol-2-yl)phenol; 2-
                               methylindoline; and other chemicals specified.
2933.99.16..................  o-Diquat dibromide (1,1-Ethylene-2,2'-dipyridylium
                               dibromide).
2933.99.17..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic insecticides with
                               nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, nesoi.
2933.99.22..................  Other heterocyclic aromatic or modified aromatic
                               pesticides with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, nesoi.
2933.99.24..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic photographic chemicals
                               with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only.
2933.99.26..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic antihistamines of
                               heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s)
                               only.
2933.99.42..................  Acriflavin; Acriflavin hydrochloride; Carbadox;
                               Pyrazinamide.
2933.99.46..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic anti-infective agents
                               of heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-
                               atom(s) only, nesoi.
2933.99.51..................  Hydralazine hydrochloride...........................
2933.99.53..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic cardiovascular drugs
                               of heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-
                               atom(s) only, nesoi.
2933.99.55..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic analgesics and certain
                               like affecting chemicals, of heterocyclic compounds
                               with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only.
2933.99.58..................  Droperidol; and Imipramine hydrochloride............
2933.99.61..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic psychotherapeutic
                               agents, affecting the central nervous system, of
                               heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s)
                               only, nesoi.
2933.99.65..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic anticonvulsants,
                               hypnotics and sedatives, of heterocyclic compounds
                               with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, nesoi.
2933.99.70..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic drugs affecting the
                               central nervous system, of heterocyclic compounds
                               with nitrogen atom(s) only, nesoi.
2933.99.75..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic drugs of heterocyclic
                               compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, nesoi.
2933.99.79..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic compounds with
                               nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, described in
                               additional U.S. note 3 to section VI of the HTSUS.

[[Page 33875]]

 
2933.99.82..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic compounds with
                               nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, excluding products
                               described in additional U.S. note 3 to section VI
                               of the HTSUS, nesoi.
2933.99.85..................  3-Amino-1,2,4-triazole..............................
2933.99.89..................  Hexamethyleneimine..................................
2933.99.90..................  Nonaromatic drugs of heterocyclic compounds with
                               nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, nesoi.
2933.99.97..................  Nonaromatic heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen
                               hetero-atom(s) only, nesoi.
2934.10.10..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic heterocyclic compounds
                               containing an unfused thiazole ring, described in
                               additional U.S. note 3 to section VI of the HTSUS.
2934.10.20..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic heterocyclic
                               compounds, nesoi, containing an unfused thiazole
                               ring.
2934.10.90..................  Other (excluding aromatic or modified aromatic)
                               compounds containing an unfused thiazole ring
                               (whether or not hydrogenated) in the structure.
2934.20.40..................  Heterocyclic compounds containing a benzothiazole
                               ring-system, not further fused, described in
                               additional U.S. note 3 to section VI of the HTSUS.
2934.20.80..................  Other compounds containing a benzothiazole ring
                               system (whether or not hydrogenated), not further
                               fused.
2934.30.23..................  Antidepressants, tranquilizers and other
                               psychotherapeutic agents containing a phenothiazine
                               ring-system, not further fused.
2934.30.27..................  Other drugs containing a phenothiazine ring system
                               (whether or not hydrogenated), not further fused,
                               nesoi.
2934.30.43..................  Products described in additional U.S. note 3 to
                               section VI of the HTSUS containing a phenothiazine
                               ring system (whether or not hydrogenated), not
                               further fused.
2934.30.50..................  Heterocyclic compounds containing a phenothiazine
                               ring-system (whether or not hydrogenated), not
                               further fused, nesoi.
2934.91.00..................  Aminorex (INN), brotizolam (INN), clotiazepam (INN),
                               cloxazolam (INN), dextromoramide (INN), and other
                               specified INNs; salts thereof.
2934.92.00..................  Other fentanyls and their derivatives, containing an
                               unfused thiazole ring.
2934.99.01..................  Mycophenolate mofetil...............................
2934.99.03..................  2-Acetylbenzo(b)thiophene; and 2 other specified
                               aromatic or modified aromatic compounds.
2934.99.05..................  5-Amino-3-phenyl-1,2,4-thiadiazole(3-Phenyl-5-amino-
                               1,2,4-thiadiazole); and 3 other specified aromatic
                               or modified aromatic heterocyclic compounds.
2934.99.06..................  7-Nitronaphth[1,2]oxadiazole-5-sulfonic acid and its
                               salts.
2934.99.07..................  Ethyl 2-[4-[(6-chloro-2-
                               benzoxazoyl)oxy]phenoxy]propanoate (Fenoxaprop-
                               ethyl).
2934.99.08..................  2,5-Diphenyloxazole.................................
2934.99.09..................  1,2-Benzisothiazolin-3-one..........................
2934.99.11..................  2-tert-Butyl-4-(2,4-dichloro-5-isopropoxyphenyl)-
                               [Delta]2-1,3,4-oxadiazolin-5-one; Bentazon;
                               Phosalone.
2934.99.12..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic fungicides of other
                               heterocyclic compounds, nesoi.
2934.99.15..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic herbicides of other
                               heterocyclic compounds, nesoi.
2934.99.16..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic insecticides of other
                               heterocyclic compounds, nesoi.
2934.99.18..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic pesticides nesoi, of
                               other heterocyclic compounds, nesoi.
2934.99.20..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic photographic chemicals
                               of other heterocyclic compounds, nesoi.
2934.99.30..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic drugs of other
                               heterocyclic compounds, nesoi.
2934.99.39..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic, other heterocyclic
                               compounds, described in additional U.S. note 3 to
                               section VI of the HTSUS.
2934.99.44..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic, other heterocyclic
                               compounds, nesoi.
2934.99.47..................  Nonaromatic drugs of other heterocyclic compounds,
                               nesoi.
2934.99.70..................  Morpholinoethyl chloride hydrochloride; 2-Methyl-2,5-
                               dioxo-1-oxa-2-phospholan; and (6R-trans)-7-Amino-3-
                               methyl-8-oxo-5- thia-1-azabicyclo[4.2.0]-oct-2-ene-
                               2- carboxylic acid.
2934.99.90..................  Nonaromatic other heterocyclic compounds, nesoi.....
2935.50.00..................  Other perfluorooctane sulfonamides..................
2935.90.06..................  4-Amino-6-chloro-m-benzenedisulfonamide and Methyl-4-
                               aminobenzenesulfonylcarbamate (Asulam).
2935.90.10..................  2-Amino-N-Ethylbenzenesulfonanilide etc.............
2935.90.13..................  (5-[2-Chloro-4-(Trifluoromeythyl)phenoxy]-N-
                               (Methylsulfonyl)-2-Nitrobenzamide)(fomesafen); etc.
2935.90.15..................  ortho-Toluenesulfonamide............................
2935.90.20..................  Sulfonamides used as fast color bases and fast color
                               salts.
2935.90.30..................  Sulfamethazine......................................
2935.90.32..................  Acetylsulfisoxazole; Sulfacetamide, sodium; and
                               Sulfamethazine, sodium.
2935.90.33..................  Sulfathiazole and Sulfathiazole, sodium.............
2935.90.42..................  Salicylazosulfapyridine (Sulfasalazine);
                               Sulfadiazine; Sulfaguanidine; Sulfamerizine; and
                               Sulfapyridine.
2935.90.48..................  Other sulfonamides used as anti-infective agents....
2935.90.60..................  Other sulfonamide drugs (excluding anti-infective
                               agents).
2935.90.75..................  Other sulfonamides (excluding fast color bases, fast
                               color salts, and drugs) of products described in
                               additional U.S. note 3 to section VI of the HTSUS.
2935.90.95..................  Other sulfonamides, excluding fast color bases, fast
                               color salts, and drugs and products described in
                               additional U.S. note 3 to section VI of the HTSUS.
2936.21.00..................  Vitamins A and their derivatives, unmixed, natural
                               or synthesized.
2936.22.00..................  Vitamin B1 (Thiamine) and its derivatives, unmixed,
                               natural or synthesized.
2936.23.00..................  Vitamin B2 (Riboflavin) and its derivatives,
                               unmixed, natural or synthesized.
2936.24.01..................  Vitamin B5 (D- or DL-Pantothenic acid) and its
                               derivatives, unmixed, natural or synthesized.
2936.25.00..................  Vitamin B6 (Pyridoxine and related compounds with
                               Vitamin B6 activity) and its derivatives, unmixed,
                               natural or synthesized.
2936.26.00..................  Vitamin B12 (Cyanocobalamin and related compounds
                               with Vitamin B12 activity) and its derivatives,
                               unmixed, natural or synthesized.
2936.27.00..................  Vitamin C (Ascorbic acid) and its derivatives,
                               unmixed, natural or synthesized.
2936.28.00..................  Vitamin E (Tocopherols and related compounds with
                               Vitamin E activity) and its derivatives, unmixed,
                               natural or synthesized.

[[Page 33876]]

 
2936.29.10..................  Folic acid and its derivatives, unmixed.............
2936.29.16..................  Niacin and niacinamide..............................
2936.29.20..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic vitamins and their
                               derivatives, nesoi.
2936.29.50..................  Other vitamins and their derivatives, nesoi.........
2936.90.01..................  Vitamins or provitamins (including natural
                               concentrates) and intermixtures of the foregoing,
                               whether or not in any solvent.
2937.11.00..................  Somatotropin, its derivatives and structural
                               analogues.
2937.12.00..................  Insulin and its salts...............................
2937.19.00..................  Polypeptide hormones, protein hormones and
                               glycoprotein hormones, their derivatives and
                               structural analogues, nesoi.
2937.21.00..................  Cortisone, hydrocortisone, prednisone
                               (Dehydrocortisone) and prednisolone
                               (Dehydrohydrocortisone).
2937.22.00..................  Halogenated derivatives of adrenal cortical hormones
2937.23.10..................  Estrogens and progestins obtained directly or
                               indirectly from animal or vegetable materials.
2937.23.25..................  Estradiol benzoate; and Estradiol
                               cyclopentylpropionate (estradiol cypionate).
2937.23.50..................  Other estrogens and progestins not derived from
                               animal or vegetable materials, nesoi.
2937.29.10..................  Desonide; and Nandrolone phenpropionate.............
2937.29.90..................  Steroidal hormones, their derivatives and structural
                               analogues, nesoi.
2937.50.00..................  Prostaglandins, thromboxanes and leukotrienes, their
                               derivatives and structural analogues.
2937.90.05..................  Epinephrine.........................................
2937.90.10..................  Epinephrine hydrochloride...........................
2937.90.20..................  Catecholamine hormones, their derivatives and
                               structural analogues, nesoi.
2937.90.40..................  l-Thyroxine(Levothyroxine), sodium..................
2937.90.45..................  Amino-acid derivatives of hormones and their
                               derivatives, nesoi.
2937.90.90..................  Other hormones, their derivatives and structural
                               analogues, other steroid derivatives and structural
                               analogue used primarily as hormones, nesoi.
2938.10.00..................  Rutoside (Rutin) and its derivatives................
2938.90.00..................  Glycosides, natural or synthesized, and their salts,
                               ethers, esters, and other derivatives other than
                               rutoside and its derivatives.
2939.11.00..................  Concentrates of poppy straw; buprenorphine (INN),
                               codeine, dihydrocodeine (INN), ethylmorphine, and
                               other specified INNs; salts thereof.
2939.19.10..................  Papaverine and its salts............................
2939.19.20..................  Synthetic alkaloids of opium, their derivatives and
                               salts thereof, nesoi.
2939.19.50..................  Nonsynthetic alkaloids of opium, their derivatives
                               and salts thereof, nesoi.
2939.20.00..................  Alkaloids of cinchona, their derivatives and salts
                               thereof, other than quinine and its salts.
2939.30.00..................  Caffeine and its salts..............................
2939.41.00..................  Ephedrine and its salts.............................
2939.42.00..................  Pseudoephedrine (INN) and its salts.................
2939.44.00..................  Norephedrine and its salts..........................
2939.45.00..................  Levometamfetamine, metamfetamine (INN),
                               metamfetamine racemate and their salts.
2939.49.03..................  Alkaloids of ephedra, their derivatives and salts
                               thereof, other than ephedrine, pseudoephedrine,
                               cathine (INN), norephedrine, levometamfetamine and
                               their salts.
2939.59.00..................  Theophylline and aminophylline (theophylline-
                               ethylenediamine), their derivatives and salts
                               thereof, nesoi.
2939.62.00..................  Ergotamine and its salts............................
2939.63.00..................  Lysergic acid and its salts.........................
2939.69.00..................  Alkaloids of rye ergot, their derivatives and salts
                               thereof, nesoi.
2939.72.00..................  Cocaine, ecgonine; salts, esters and other
                               derivatives thereof.
2939.79.00..................  Vegetal alkaloids, natural or reproduced by
                               synthesis, their salts and other derivatives, nesoi.
2939.80.00..................  Other alkaloids, natural or reproduced by synthesis,
                               and their salts, ethers, esters and other
                               derivatives, nesoi.
2940.00.60..................  Other sugars, nesoi, excluding d-arabinose..........
2941.10.10..................  Ampicillin and its salts............................
2941.10.20..................  Penicillin G salts..................................
2941.10.30..................  Carfecillin, sodium; cloxacillin, sodium;
                               dicloxacillin, sodium; flucloxacillin
                               (Floxacillin); and oxacillin, sodium.
2941.10.50..................  Penicillins and their derivatives nesoi, with a
                               penicillanic acid structure; salts thereof.
2941.20.10..................  Dihydrostreptomycins and its derivatives; salts
                               thereof.
2941.20.50..................  Streptomycins and their derivatives; salts thereof,
                               nesoi.
2941.30.00..................  Tetracyclines and their derivatives; salts thereof..
2941.40.00..................  Chloramphenicol and its derivatives; salts thereof..
2941.50.00..................  Erythromycin and its derivatives; salts thereof.....
2941.90.10..................  Natural antibiotics, nesoi..........................
2941.90.30..................  Antibiotics nesoi, aromatic or modified aromatic,
                               other than natural.
2941.90.50..................  Antibiotics nesoi, other than aromatic or modified
                               aromatic antibiotics.
2942.00.05..................  Aromatic or modified aromatic drugs of other organic
                               compounds, nesoi.
2942.00.35..................  Other aromatic or modified aromatic organic
                               compounds (excluding products described in
                               additional U.S. note 3 to section VI of the HTSUS).
2942.00.50..................  Nonaromatic organic compounds, nesoi................
3001.20.00..................  Extracts of glands or other organs or of their
                               secretions for organotherapeutic uses.
3001.90.01..................  Glands and other organs for organotherapeutic uses,
                               dried, whether or not powdered.
3002.12.00..................  Antisera and other blood fractions including human
                               blood plasma and fetal bovine serum (FBS).
3002.13.00..................  Immunological products, unmixed, not put up in
                               measured doses or in forms or packings for retail
                               sale.
3002.14.00..................  Immunological products, mixed, not put up in
                               measured doses or in forms or packings for retail
                               sale.
3002.15.00..................  Immunological products, put up in measured doses or
                               in forms or packings for retail sale.
3002.41.00..................  Vaccines for human medicine.........................
3002.42.00..................  Vaccines for veterinary medicine....................

[[Page 33877]]

 
3002.49.00..................  Toxins or cultures of micro-organisms (excluding
                               yeasts).
3002.51.00..................  Cell therapy products...............................
3002.59.00..................  Other cell cultures, other than cell therapy
                               products.
3002.90.10..................  Ferments, excluding yeasts..........................
3002.90.52..................  Human blood; animal blood prepared for therapeutic,
                               prophylactic, or diagnostic uses; antisera;
                               antiallergenic preparations, nesoi and like
                               products.
3003.10.00..................  Medicaments, containing penicillins or
                               streptomycins, not in dosage form and not packed
                               for retail.
3003.20.00..................  Medicaments containing antibiotics, nesoi, not in
                               dosage form and not packed for retail.
3003.39.10..................  Medicaments containing artificial mixtures of
                               natural hormones, but not antibiotics, not in
                               dosage form and not packed for retail.
3003.39.50..................  Medicaments containing products of heading 2937,
                               nesoi, but not antibiotics, not in dosage form and
                               not packed for retail.
3003.41.00..................  Medicaments containing ephedrine or its salts, not
                               in dosage form and not packed for retail.
3003.42.00..................  Medicaments containing pseudoephedrine (INN) or its
                               salts, not in dosage form and not packed for retail.
3003.49.00..................  Other medicaments containing alkaloids or
                               derivatives thereof, nesoi, not in dosage form and
                               not packed for retail.
3003.90.01..................  Other medicaments (excluding goods of headings 3002,
                               3005 and 3006) consisting of two or more
                               constituents mixed together for therapeutic or
                               prophylactic uses, not in dosage form and not
                               packed for retail.
3004.10.10..................  Medicaments (excluding goods of headings 3002, 3005
                               and 3006) containing penicillin G salts, in dosage
                               form or packed for retail.
3004.10.50..................  Medicaments containing penicillins or streptomycins,
                               nesoi, in dosage form or packed for retail.
3004.20.00..................  Medicaments containing antibiotics, nesoi, in dosage
                               form or packed for retail.
3004.31.00..................  Medicaments containing insulin, in dosage form or
                               packed for retail.
3004.32.00..................  Medicaments containing corticosteroidhormones, in
                               dosage form or packed for retail.
3004.39.00..................  Medicaments containing products of heading 2937
                               nesoi, in dosage form or packed for retail.
3004.41.00..................  Medicaments containing ephedrine or its salts, in
                               dosage form or packed for retail.
3004.42.00..................  Medicaments containing pseudoephedrine (INN) or its
                               salts, in dosage form or packed for retail.
3004.49.00..................  Other medicaments containing alkaloids or
                               derivatives thereof, nesoi, in dosage form or
                               packed for retail.
3004.50.10..................  Medicaments containing vitamin B2 synthesized from
                               aromatic or modified aromatic industrial organic
                               compounds, in dosage form or packed for retail.
3004.50.20..................  Medicaments containing vitamin B12 synthesized from
                               aromatic or modified aromatic industrial organic
                               compounds, in dosage form or packed for retail.
3004.50.30..................  Medicaments containing vitamin E synthesized from
                               aromatic or modified aromatic industrial organic
                               compounds, in dosage form or packed for retail.
3004.50.40..................  Medicaments containing vitamins nesoi, synthesized
                               from aromatic or modified aromatic industrial
                               organic compounds, in dosage form or packed for
                               retail.
3004.50.50..................  Medicaments containing vitamins or other products of
                               heading 2936, nesoi, in dosage form or packed for
                               retail.
3004.60.00..................  Other medicaments containing antimalarial active
                               principles described in subheading note 2 to
                               chapter 30 of the HTSUS, in dosage form or packed
                               for retail.
3004.90.10..................  Medicaments containing antigens or hyaluronic acid
                               or its sodium salt, nesoi, in dosage form or packed
                               for retail.
3004.90.92..................  Medicaments nesoi, in dosage form or packed for
                               retail.
3006.30.10..................  Opacifying preparation for X-ray examination;
                               diagnostic reagents designed to be administered to
                               the patient; containing antigens or antisera.
3006.30.50..................  Opacifying preparations for X-ray examinations;
                               diagnostic reagents designed to be administered to
                               the patient, nesoi.
3006.60.00..................  Chemical contraceptive preparations based on
                               hormones or spermicides.
3006.70.00..................  Gel preparations designed to be used in human or
                               veterinary medicine as a lubricant in surgical
                               operation, physical examinations or as a coupling
                               agent between body and medical instrument.
3006.93.10..................  Placebos and blinded clinical trial kits, put up in
                               measured doses, packaged with medicinal
                               preparations.
3006.93.20..................  Placebos and blinded clinical trial kits, put up in
                               measured doses, containing over 10 percent by dry
                               weight of sugar.
3006.93.50..................  Placebos and blinded clinical trial kits, put up in
                               measured doses, containing ingredients having
                               nutritional value.
3006.93.60..................  Placebos and blinded clinical trial kits, put up in
                               measured doses, in liquid form for oral intake.
3006.93.80..................  Placebos and blinded clinical trial kits, put up in
                               measured doses, containing other chemicals other
                               than medicaments.
3101.00.00..................  Animal or vegetable fertilizers; fertilizers
                               produced by the mixing or chemical treatment of
                               animal or vegetable products.
3102.10.00..................  Urea, whether or not in aqueous solution............
3102.21.00..................  Ammonium sulfate....................................
3102.29.00..................  Double salts and mixtures of ammonium sulfate and
                               ammonium nitrate.
3102.30.00..................  Ammonium nitrate, whether or not in aqueous solution
3102.40.00..................  Mixtures of ammonium nitrate with calcium carbonate
                               or other inorganic nonfertilizing substances.
3102.50.00..................  Sodium nitrate......................................
3102.60.00..................  Double salts and mixtures of calcium nitrate and
                               ammonium nitrate.
3102.80.00..................  Mixtures of urea and ammonium nitrate in aqueous or
                               ammoniacal solution.
3102.90.01..................  Mineral or chemical fertilizers, nitrogenous, nesoi,
                               including mixtures not specified elsewhere in
                               heading 3102.
3103.11.00..................  Superphosphates containing by weight 35 percent or
                               more of diphosphorous pentaoxide (P2O5).
3103.19.00..................  Superphosphates nesoi...............................
3103.90.01..................  Mineral or chemical fertilizers, phosphatic.........
3104.20.00..................  Potassium chloride..................................
3104.30.00..................  Potassium sulfate...................................

[[Page 33878]]

 
3104.90.01..................  Mineral or chemical fertilizers, potassic, nesoi....
3105.10.00..................  Fertilizers of chapter 31 of the HTSUS in tablets or
                               similar forms.
3105.20.00..................  Mineral or chemical fertilizers nesoi, containing
                               three fertilizing elements.
3105.30.00..................  Diammonium hydrogenorthophosphate (Diammonium
                               phosphate).
3105.40.00..................  Ammonium dihydrogenorthophosphate (Monoammonium
                               phosphate), mixtures thereof with diammonium
                               hydrogenorthophosphate (Diammonium phosphate).
3105.51.00..................  Mineral or chemical fertilizers nesoi, containing
                               nitrates and phosphates.
3105.59.00..................  Mineral or chemical fertilizers nesoi, containing
                               the two fertilizing elements nitrogen and
                               phosphorus.
3105.60.00..................  Mineral or chemical fertilizers nesoi, containing 2
                               fertilizing elements.
3105.90.00..................  Mineral or chemical fertilizers containing two or
                               three of the fertilizing elements nitrogen,
                               phosphorus and potassium fertilizers, nesoi.
3203.00.80..................  Coloring matter of vegetable or animal origin, nesoi
3204.13.80..................  Basic dyes and preparations based thereon, nesoi....
3204.17.20..................  Copper phthalocyanine ([Phthalocyanato(2-)]copper)
                               not ready for use as a pigment.
3204.18.00..................  Carotenoid coloring matters and preparations based
                               thereon.
3206.11.00..................  Pigments and preparations based on titanium dioxide,
                               containing 80 percent or more by weight of titanium
                               dioxide calculated on the dry matter.
3206.19.00..................  Pigments and preparations based on titanium dioxide,
                               nesoi.
3301.12.00..................  Essential oils of orange............................
3301.29.51..................  Essential oils other than those of citrus fruit,      Ex.
                               nesoi, for religious purposes only.
3301.90.50..................  Concentrates of essential oils in fats, in fixed
                               oils, in waxes or the like, obtained by enfleurage
                               or maceration; terpenic by products of the
                               deterpenation of essential oils; aqueous
                               distillates and aqueous solutions of essential oils.
3402.42.10..................  Non-ionic organic surface-active agents, aromatic or
                               modified aromatic.
3402.42.20..................  Fatty substances of animal, vegetable or microbial
                               origin; non-ionic organic surface-active agents,
                               other than aromatic or modified aromatic.
3402.42.90..................  Non-ionic organic surface-active agents, other than
                               fatty substances of animal, vegetable or microbial
                               origin, other than aromatic or modified aromatic.
3606.90.30..................  Ferrocerium and other pyrophoric alloys in all forms
3808.94.10..................  Disinfectants, containing any aromatic or modified
                               aromatic disinfectant.
3808.94.50..................  Disinfectants not included in subheading note 1 of
                               chapter 38 of the HTSUS, nesoi.
3818.00.00..................  Chemical elements doped for use in electronics, in
                               the form of discs, wafers etc., chemical compounds
                               doped for electronic use.
3824.91.00..................  Mixtures consisting mainly of methylphosphonate etc.
3824.99.29..................  Mixtures containing 5 percent or more by weight of
                               one or more aromatic or modified aromatic
                               substance, nesoi.
3824.99.49..................  Mixtures that are in whole or in part of
                               hydrocarbons derived in whole or in part from
                               petroleum, shale oil or natural gas.
3824.99.55..................  Mixtures of halogenated hydrocarbons, nesoi.........
3901.90.90..................  Polymers of ethylene, nesoi, in primary forms, other
                               than elastomeric.
3902.90.00..................  Polymers of propylene or of other olefins, nesoi, in
                               primary forms.
3904.61.00..................  Polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), in primary forms....
3905.91.10..................  Copolymers of vinyl esters or other vinyls, in
                               primary forms, containing by weight 50 percent or
                               more of derivatives of vinyl acetate.
3905.99.80..................  Polymers of vinyl esters or other vinyl polymers, in
                               primary forms, nesoi.
3906.90.50..................  Acrylic polymers (except plastics or elastomers), in
                               primary forms, nesoi.
3907.10.00..................  Polyacetals in primary forms........................
3907.21.00..................  Bis(polyoxyethylene) methylphosphonate..............
3907.70.00..................  Poly(lactic acid)...................................
3908.10.00..................  Polyamide-6, -11, -12, -6,6, -6,9, -6,10 or -6,12 in
                               primary form.
3911.90.25..................  Thermoplastic polysulfides, polysulfones and other
                               products specified in note 3 to chapter 39 of the
                               HTSUS, containing aromatic monomer units or derived
                               therefrom.
3911.90.91..................  Polysulfides, polysulfones and other products
                               specified in note 3 to chapter 39 of the HTSUS,
                               nesoi.
3912.31.00..................  Carboxymethylcellulose and its salts................
3912.39.00..................  Cellulose ethers, other than carboxymethylcellulose
                               and its salts, in primary forms.
3912.90.00..................  Cellulose and its chemical derivatives, nesoi, in
                               primary forms.
3913.90.20..................  Polysaccharides and their derivatives, nesoi, in
                               primary forms.
3913.90.50..................  Natural polymers and modified natural polymers,
                               nesoi, in primary forms.
3914.00.60..................  Ion-exchangers based on polymers of headings 3901 to
                               3913, in primary forms, nesoi.
3917.21.00..................  Tubes, pipes and hoses, rigid, of polymers of         Aircraft.
                               ethylene.
3917.22.00..................  Tubes, pipes and hoses, rigid, of polymers of         Aircraft.
                               propylene.
3917.23.00..................  Tubes, pipes and hoses, rigid, of polymers of vinyl   Aircraft.
                               chloride.
3917.29.00..................  Tubes, pipes and hoses, rigid, of other plastics      Aircraft.
                               nesoi.
3917.31.00..................  Flexible plastic tubes, pipes and hoses, having a     Aircraft.
                               minimum burst pressure of 27.6 MPa.
3917.33.00..................  Flexible plastic tubes, pipes and hoses, nesoi, with  Aircraft.
                               fittings, not reinforced or otherwise combined with
                               other materials.
3917.39.00..................  Flexible plastic tubes, pipes and hoses, nesoi......  Aircraft.
3917.40.00..................  Fittings of plastics, for plastic tubes, pipes and    Aircraft.
                               hoses, nesoi.
3926.90.45..................  Gaskets, washers and other seals, of plastics.......  Aircraft.
3926.90.94..................  Cards, not punched, suitable for use as, or in        Aircraft.
                               making, jacquard cards; Jacquard cards and jacquard
                               heads for power-driven weaving machines, and parts
                               thereof; and transparent sheeting of plastics
                               containing 30 percent or more by weight of lead.

[[Page 33879]]

 
3926.90.96..................  Casing for bicycle derailleur cables; and casing for  Aircraft.
                               cable or inner wire for caliper and cantilever
                               brakes, whether or not cut to length; of plastic.
3926.90.99..................  Other articles of plastic, nesoi....................  Aircraft.
4001.10.00..................  Natural rubber latex, whether or not prevulcanized..
4001.21.00..................  Natural rubber smoked sheets........................
4001.22.00..................  Technically specified natural rubber (TSNR), in
                               primary forms.
4001.29.00..................  Natural rubber in primary forms other than latex,
                               smoked sheets or technically specified natural
                               rubber (TSNR).
4001.30.00..................  Balata, gutta-percha, guayule, chicle and similar
                               natural rubber gums, in primary forms.
4008.29.20..................  Rods and profile shapes of vulcanized, noncellular    Aircraft.
                               rubber, other than hard rubber.
4009.12.00..................  Tubes, pipes and hoses of vulcanized rubber other     Aircraft.
                               than hard rubber, not reinforced or combined with
                               other materials, with fittings.
4009.22.00..................  Tubes, pipes and hoses of vulcanized rubber other     Aircraft.
                               than hard rubber, reinforced or combined only with
                               metal, with fittings.
4009.32.00..................  Tubes, pipes and hoses of vulcanized rubber other     Aircraft.
                               than hard rubber, reinforced or combined only with
                               textile materials, with fittings.
4009.42.00..................  Tubes, pipes and hoses of vulcanized rubber other     Aircraft.
                               than hard rubber, reinforced or combined with other
                               materials nesoi, with fittings.
4011.30.00..................  New pneumatic tires, of rubber, of a kind used on     Aircraft.
                               aircraft.
4012.13.00..................  Retreaded pneumatic tires, of rubber, of a kind used  Aircraft.
                               on aircraft.
4012.20.10..................  Used pneumatic tires of rubber, for aircraft........  Aircraft.
4016.10.00..................  Articles of vulcanized cellular rubber other than     Aircraft.
                               hard rubber.
4016.93.50..................  Gaskets, washers and other seals, of noncellular      Aircraft.
                               vulcanized rubber other than hard rubber, not for
                               use in automotive goods of chapter 87 of the HTSUS.
4016.99.35..................  Articles made of noncellular vulcanized natural       Aircraft.
                               rubber, not used as vibration control goods in
                               vehicles of headings 8701 through 8705, nesoi.
4016.99.60..................  Articles of noncellular vulcanized synthetic rubber   Aircraft.
                               other than hard rubber.
4017.00.00..................  Hard rubber (for example, ebonite) in all forms,      Aircraft.
                               including waste and scrap; articles of hard rubber.
4403.42.00..................  Wood in the rough or roughly squared, of teak, not
                               treated with paint, stain, creosote, or other
                               preservatives.
4403.49.02..................  Wood in the rough or roughly squared, of tropical
                               wood other than Teak or Meranti, not treated with
                               paint, stain, creosote, or other preservatives.
4407.21.00..................  Mahogany (Swietenia spp.), sawn or chipped
                               lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick.
4407.22.00..................  Virola, Imbuia and Balsa, sawn or chipped
                               lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick.
4407.23.01..................  Teak, sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled,
                               over 6 mm thick.
4407.25.00..................  Dark Red Meranti, Light Red Meranti and Meranti
                               Bakau wood, sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or
                               peeled, over 6 mm thick.
4407.26.00..................  White Lauan, White Meranti, White Seraya, Yellow
                               Meranti and Alan wood, sawn or chipped lengthwise,
                               sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick.
4407.27.00..................  Sapelli wood, sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or
                               peeled, over 6 mm thick.
4407.28.00..................  Iroko wood, sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or
                               peeled, over 6 mm thick.
4407.29.02..................  Tropical wood, nesoi, sawn or chipped lengthwise,
                               sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick.
4407.99.0295................  Nonconiferous wood, nesoi, sawn or chipped
                               lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick;
                               other.
4408.31.01..................  Dark Red Meranti, Light Red Meranti and Meranti
                               Bakau veneer sheets, for plywood and other wood,
                               sawn lengthwise, sliced or peeled, not over 6 mm
                               thick.
4408.39.02..................  Other tropical wood veneer sheets, for plywood and
                               other wood, sawn lengthwise, sliced or peeled, not
                               over 6 mm thick.
4504.90.00..................  Agglomerated cork and articles of cork, nesoi.......  Aircraft.
4702.00.00..................  Chemical woodpulp, dissolving grades................
4703.11.00..................  Unbleached coniferous chemical woodpulp.............
4703.19.00..................  Chemical woodpulp, soda or sulfate, other than
                               dissolving grades, of unbleached nonconiferous wood.
4703.21.00..................  Semibleached or bleached coniferous chemical
                               woodpulp.
4703.29.00..................  Semibleached or bleached nonconiferous chemical
                               woodpulp.
4704.11.00..................  Chemical woodpulp, sulfite, other than dissolving
                               grades, of unbleached coniferous wood.
4704.19.00..................  Chemical woodpulp, sulfite, other than dissolving
                               grades, of unbleached nonconiferous wood.
4704.21.00..................  Chemical woodpulp, sulfite, other than dissolving
                               grades, of semibleached or bleached coniferous wood.
4704.29.00..................  Chemical woodpulp, sulfite, other than dissolving
                               grades, of semibleached or bleached nonconiferous
                               wood.
4705.00.00..................  Semichemical woodpulp...............................
4706.10.00..................  Cotton linters pulp.................................
4706.20.00..................  Pulps of fibers derived from recovered (waste and
                               scrap) paper or paperboard.
4706.30.00..................  Pulps of fibrous cellulosic material, of bamboo.....
4706.91.00..................  Pulps of fibrous cellulosic material, mechanical....
4706.92.01..................  Pulps of fibrous cellulosic material, chemical......
4706.93.01..................  Pulps of fibrous cellulosic material, semichemical..
4823.90.10..................  Articles of paper pulp, nesoi.......................  Aircraft.
4823.90.20..................  Articles of papier-m[acirc]ch[eacute], nesoi........  Aircraft.
4823.90.31..................  Cards of paper or paperboard, nesoi, not punched,     Aircraft.
                               for punchcard machines, whether or not in strips.
4823.90.40..................  Frames or mounts for photographic slides of paper or  Aircraft.
                               paperboard.
4823.90.50..................  Hand fans of paper or paperboard....................  Aircraft.
4823.90.60..................  Gaskets, washers and other seals of coated paper or   Aircraft.
                               paperboard.
4823.90.67..................  Coated paper or paperboard, nesoi...................  Aircraft.
4823.90.70..................  Articles of cellulose wadding, nesoi................  Aircraft.
4823.90.80..................  Gaskets, washers and other seals of paper,            Aircraft.
                               paperboard and webs of cellulose fibers, nesoi.
4823.90.86..................  Articles of paper pulp, paper, paperboard, cellulose  Aircraft.
                               wadding or webs of cellulose fibers, nesoi.
5607.21.00..................  Binder or baler twine of sisal or other textile
                               fibers of the genus Agave.

[[Page 33880]]

 
6802.99.00..................  Worked monumental or building stone, nesoi..........
6812.80.90..................  Articles or mixtures of crocidolite, nesoi..........  Aircraft.
6812.99.10..................  Paper, millboard and felt of asbestos, other than     Aircraft.
                               crocidolite.
6812.99.20..................  Compressed asbestos (other than crocidolite) fiber    Aircraft.
                               jointing, in sheets or rolls.
6812.99.90..................  Articles of mixtures of or with a basis of asbestos,  Aircraft.
                               nesoi, other than crocidolite.
6813.20.00..................  Friction material and articles thereof, containing    Aircraft.
                               asbestos.
6813.81.00..................  Brake linings and pads not containing asbestos......  Aircraft.
6813.89.00..................  Friction material and articles thereof with a basis   Aircraft.
                               of mineral substances (other than asbestos) or of
                               cellulose, nesoi.
7007.21.11..................  Laminated safety glass windshields, of size and       Aircraft.
                               shape suitable for incorporation in vehicles (other
                               than for goods of headings 8701 through 8705),
                               aircraft, spacecraft or vessels.
7103.10.20..................  Precious stones (o/than diamonds) & semiprecious
                               stones, unworked.
7103.10.40..................  Precious stones (o/than diamonds) & semiprecious
                               stones, simply sawn or roughly shaped.
7106.91.10..................  Silver bullion and dore.............................
7108.11.00..................  Gold, nonmonetary, powder...........................
7108.12.10..................  Gold, nonmonetary, bullion and dore.................
7108.12.50..................  Gold, nonmonetary, other unwrought forms, other.....
7108.13.10..................  Gold, nonmonetary, other semimanufactured forms,
                               gold leaf.
7108.13.55..................  Gold, nonmonetary, other semimanufactured forms,
                               rectangular or near rectangular shapes, containing
                               99.5 percent or more by weight of gold and not
                               otherwise marked or decorated than with weight,
                               purity, or other identifying information.
7108.13.70..................  Gold, nonmonetary, other semimanufactured forms,
                               other.
7108.20.00..................  Gold, monetary......................................
7110.11.00..................  Platinum, unwrought or in powder form...............
7110.19.00..................  Platinum, in semimanufactured forms.................
7110.21.00..................  Palladium, unwrought or in powder form..............
7110.29.00..................  Palladium, in semimanufactured forms................
7110.31.00..................  Rhodium, unwrought or in powder form................
7110.39.00..................  Rhodium, in semimanufactured forms..................
7110.41.00..................  Iridium, osmium and ruthenium, unwrought or in
                               powder form.
7110.49.00..................  Iridium, osmium and ruthenium, in semimanufactured
                               forms.
7112.92.01..................  Platinum waste and scrap, including metal clad with
                               platinum, excluding sweepings containing other
                               precious metals, other than goods of heading 8549.
7115.90.05..................  Articles of precious metal, in rectangular or near
                               rectangular shapes, containing 99.5 percent or more
                               by weight of a precious metal and not otherwise
                               marked or decorated than with weight, purity, or
                               other identifying information.
7115.90.30..................  Articles of precious metal or of metal clad with
                               precious metal, other articles of gold, including
                               metal clad with gold.
7118.90.00..................  Coins, nesoi........................................
7201.50.60..................  Spiegeleisen in pigs, blocks or other primary forms.
7202.11.10..................  Ferromanganese containing by weight more than 2
                               percent but not more than 4 percent of carbon.
7202.11.50..................  Ferromanganese containing by weight more than 4
                               percent of carbon.
7202.19.10..................  Ferromanganese containing by weight not more than 1
                               percent of carbon.
7202.19.50..................  Ferromanganese containing by weight more than 1
                               percent but not more than 2 percent of carbon.
7202.30.00..................  Ferrosilicon manganese..............................
7202.41.00..................  Ferrochromium containing by weight more than 4
                               percent of carbon.
7202.49.10..................  Ferrochromium containing by weight more than 3
                               percent but not more than 4 percent of carbon.
7202.49.50..................  Ferrochromium containing by weight 3 percent or less
                               of carbon.
7202.50.00..................  Ferrosilicon chromium...............................
7202.60.00..................  Ferronickel.........................................
7202.80.00..................  Ferrotungsten and ferrosilicon tungsten.............
7202.91.00..................  Ferrotitanium and ferrosilicon titanium.............
7202.93.40..................  Ferroniobium containing by weight less than 0.02
                               percent of phosphorus or sulfur or less than 0.4
                               percent of silicon.
7202.93.80..................  Ferroniobium, nesoi.................................
7202.99.20..................  Calcium Silicon (CaSi)..............................
7203.10.00..................  Ferrous products obtained by direct reduction of
                               iron ore.
7203.90.00..................  Spongy ferrous products, in lumps, pellets or like
                               forms; iron of a minimum purity by weight of 99.94
                               percent in lumps, pellets or like forms.
7204.21.00..................  Stainless steel waste and scrap.....................
7304.31.30..................  Iron (other than cast) or nonalloy steel, seamless,   Aircraft.
                               cold-drawn or cold-rolled, hollow bars with
                               circular cross section.
7304.31.60..................  Iron (other than cast) or nonalloy steel, seamless,   Aircraft.
                               cold-drawn or cold-rolled, tubes, pipes and hollow
                               profiles, with circular cross section, nesoi.
7304.39.00..................  Iron (other than cast) or nonalloy steel, seamless,   Aircraft.
                               not cold-drawn or cold-rolled, tubes, pipes and
                               hollow profiles, with circular cross section, nesoi.
7304.41.30..................  Stainless steel, seamless, cold-drawn or cold-        Aircraft.
                               rolled, tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, with
                               circular cross section and external diameter of
                               less than 19mm.
7304.41.60..................  Stainless steel, seamless, cold-drawn or cold-        Aircraft.
                               rolled, tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, with
                               circular cross section and external diameter of
                               19mm or more.
7304.49.00..................  Stainless steel, seamless, not cold-drawn or cold-    Aircraft.
                               rolled, tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, with
                               circular cross section.

[[Page 33881]]

 
7304.51.10..................  Alloy steel (other than stainless), seamless, cold-   Aircraft.
                               drawn or cold-rolled, tubes, pipes and hollow
                               profiles, with circular cross section, for
                               manufacture of ball or roller bearings.
7304.51.50..................  Alloy steel (other than stainless), seamless, cold-   Aircraft.
                               drawn or cold-rolled, tubes, pipes and hollow
                               profiles, with circular cross section, nesoi.
7304.59.10..................  Alloy steel (other than stainless), seamless, not     Aircraft.
                               old-drawn or cold-rolled, tubes, pipes and hollow
                               profiles, with circular cross section, for
                               manufacture of ball or roller bearings.
7304.59.20..................  Alloy steel (other than stainless), seamless, not     Aircraft.
                               cold-drawn or cold-rolled, tubes, pipes and hollow
                               profiles, with circular cross section, for boilers,
                               heaters, etc..
7304.59.60..................  Heat-resisting alloy steel (other than stainless),    Aircraft.
                               seamless, not cold-drawn or cold-rolled, tubes,
                               pipes and hollow profiles, with circular cross
                               section, nesoi.
7304.59.80..................  Alloy steel (other than heat-resist or stainless),    Aircraft.
                               seamless, not cold-drawn or cold-rolled, tubes,
                               pipes and hollow profiles, with circular cross
                               section, nesoi.
7304.90.10..................  Iron (other than cast) or nonalloy steel, seamless,   Aircraft.
                               tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, other than
                               circular cross section, with wall thickness of 4 mm
                               or more.
7304.90.30..................  Alloy steel (other than stainless), seamless, tubes,  Aircraft.
                               pipes and hollow profiles, other than circular
                               cross section, with wall thickness of 4 mm or more.
7304.90.50..................  Iron (other than cast) or nonalloy steel, seamless,   Aircraft.
                               tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, other than
                               circular cross section, with wall thickness of less
                               than 4 mm.
7304.90.70..................  Alloy steel (other than stainless), seamless, tubes,  Aircraft.
                               pipes and hollow profiles, other than circular
                               cross section, with wall thickness of less than 4
                               mm.
7306.30.10..................  Iron or nonalloy steel, welded, with circular cross   Aircraft.
                               section and external diameter of 406.4mm or less,
                               tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, with wall
                               thickness of less than 1.65 mm.
7306.30.30..................  Nonalloy steel, welded, with circular cross-section   Aircraft.
                               and external diameter 406.4mm or less, tapered
                               pipes and tubes, with wall thickness of 1.65 mm or
                               more, principally used as parts of illuminating
                               articles.
7306.30.50..................  Iron or nonalloy steel, welded, with circular cross   Aircraft.
                               section and external diameter of 406.4mm or less,
                               pipes, tubes and hollow profiles, with wall
                               thickness of 1.65 mm or more.
7306.40.10..................  Stainless steel, welded, with circular cross section  Aircraft.
                               and external diameter of 406.4mm or less, tubes,
                               pipes and hollow profiles, with wall thickness of
                               less than 1.65 mm.
7306.40.50..................  Stainless steel, welded, with circular cross section  Aircraft.
                               and external diameter of 406.4mm or less, tubes,
                               pipes and hollow profiles, with wall thickness of
                               1.65 mm or more.
7306.50.10..................  Alloy steel (other than stainless), welded, with      Aircraft.
                               circular cross section and external diameter of
                               406.4mm or less, tubes, pipes and hollow profiles,
                               with wall thickness of less than 1.65 mm.
7306.50.30..................  Alloy steel (other than stainless), welded, with      Aircraft.
                               circular cross section and external diameter
                               406.4mm or less, tapered pipes and tubes, with wall
                               thickness of 1.65 mm or more, principally used as
                               parts of illuminating articles.
7306.50.50..................  Alloy steel (other than stainless), welded, with      Aircraft.
                               circular cross section and external diameter of
                               406.4mm or less, tubes, pipes and hollow profiles,
                               with wall thickness of 1.65 mm or more.
7306.61.10..................  Iron or nonalloy steel, welded, with square or        Aircraft.
                               rectangular cross section, tubes, pipes and hollow
                               profiles, with wall thickness of 4 mm or more.
7306.61.30..................  Alloy steel, welded, with square or rectangular       Aircraft.
                               cross section, tubes, pipes and hollow profiles,
                               with wall thickness of 4 mm or more.
7306.61.50..................  Iron or nonalloy steel, welded, with square or        Aircraft.
                               rectangular cross section, tubes, pipes and hollow
                               profiles, with wall thickness of less than 4 mm.
7306.61.70..................  Alloy steel, welded, with square or rectangular       Aircraft.
                               cross section, tubes, pipes and hollow profiles,
                               with wall thickness of less than 4 mm.
7306.69.10..................  Iron or nonalloy steel, welded, with other non-       Aircraft.
                               circular cross section, tubes, pipes and hollow
                               profiles, with wall thickness of 4 mm or more.
7306.69.30..................  Alloy steel, welded, with other non-circular cross-   Aircraft.
                               section, tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, with
                               wall thickness of 4 mm or more.
7306.69.50..................  Iron or nonalloy steel, welded, with other non-       Aircraft.
                               circular cross section, tubes, pipes and hollow
                               profiles, with wall thickness of less than 4 mm.
7306.69.70..................  Alloy steel, welded, with other non-circular cross    Aircraft.
                               section, tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, with
                               wall thickness of less than 4 mm.
7312.10.05..................  Stainless steel, stranded wire, not electrically      Aircraft.
                               insulated, fitted with fittings or made up into
                               articles.
7312.10.10..................  Stainless steel, stranded wire, not electrically      Aircraft.
                               insulated, not fitted with fittings or made up into
                               articles.
7312.10.20..................  Iron or steel (other than stainless), stranded wire,  Aircraft.
                               not electrically insulated, fitted with fittings or
                               made up into articles.
7312.10.30..................  Iron or steel (other than stainless), stranded wire,  Aircraft.
                               not electrically insulated, not fitted with
                               fittings or made up into articles.
7312.10.50..................  Stainless steel, ropes, cables and cordage (other     Aircraft.
                               than stranded wire), not electrically insulated,
                               fitted with fittings or made up into articles.
7312.10.60..................  Stainless steel, ropes, cables and cordage (other     Aircraft.
                               than stranded wire), not electrically insulated,
                               not fitted with fittings or made up into articles.
7312.10.70..................  Iron or steel (other than stainless), ropes, cables   Aircraft.
                               and cordage (other than stranded wire), not
                               electrically insulated, fitted with fittings or
                               made up into articles.
7312.10.80..................  Iron or steel (other than stainless), ropes, cables   Aircraft.
                               and cordage, of brass plated wire (other than
                               stranded wire), not electrically insulated, without
                               fittings or articles.
7312.10.90..................  Iron or steel (other than stainless), ropes, cables   Aircraft.
                               and cordage, other than of brass plate wire (other
                               than stranded wire), not electrically insulated,
                               without fittings or articles.
7312.90.00..................  Iron or steel (other than stainless), plaited bands,  Aircraft.
                               slings and the like, not electrically insulated.
7314.19.01..................  Iron or steel (o/than stainless), woven cloth.......
7322.90.00..................  Iron or steel, non-electrically heated air heaters    Aircraft.
                               and hot air distributors with motor driven fan or
                               blower and parts thereof.

[[Page 33882]]

 
7324.10.00..................  Stainless steel, sinks and wash basins..............  Aircraft.
7324.90.00..................  Iron or steel, sanitary ware (other than baths or     Aircraft.
                               stainless steel sinks and wash basins) and parts
                               thereof.
7326.20.00..................  Iron or steel, articles of wire, nesoi..............  Aircraft.
7401.00.00..................  Copper mattes; cement copper (precipitated copper)..
7402.00.00..................  Unrefined copper; copper anodes for electrolytic
                               refining.
7403.11.00..................  Refined copper cathodes and sections of cathodes....
7403.12.00..................  Refined copper, wire bars...........................
7403.13.00..................  Refined copper, billets.............................
7403.19.00..................  Refined copper, unwrought articles nesoi............
7403.21.00..................  Copper-zinc base alloys (brass), unwrought nesoi....
7403.22.00..................  Copper-tin base alloys (bronze), unwrought nesoi....
7403.29.01..................  Copper alloys (other than copper-zinc, copper-tin
                               alloys), unwrought nesoi.
7404.00.30..................  Copper spent anodes; copper waste and scrap
                               containing less than 94 percent by weight of copper.
7404.00.60..................  Copper, waste and scrap containing 94 percent or
                               more by weight of copper.
7405.00.10..................  Copper master alloys, containing 5 percent or more
                               but not more than 15 percent by weight of
                               phosphorus.
7405.00.60..................  Copper master alloys, not containing 5 percent or
                               more but not more than 15 percent by weight of
                               phosphorus.
7413.00.90..................  Copper, stranded wire, cables, plaited bands and the  Aircraft.
                               like, not electrically insulated, fitted with
                               fittings or made up into articles.
7501.10.00..................  Nickel mattes.......................................
7502.10.00..................  Nickel (other than alloy), unwrought................
7502.20.00..................  Nickel alloys, unwrought............................
7503.00.00..................  Nickel, waste and scrap.............................
7504.00.00..................  Nickel, powders and flakes..........................
7508.90.50..................  Nickel, articles of nesoi...........................
7608.10.00..................  Aluminum (other than alloy), tubes and pipes........  Aircraft.
7608.20.00..................  Aluminum alloy, tubes and pipes.....................  Aircraft.
7901.11.00..................  Zinc (other than alloy), unwrought, containing 99.99
                               percent or more by weight of zinc.
7901.12.10..................  Zinc (other than alloy), unwrought, casting-grade
                               zinc, containing at least 97.5 percent but less
                               than 99.99 percent by weight of zinc.
7901.12.50..................  Zinc (other than alloy), unwrought, other than
                               casting-grade zinc, containing at least 97.5
                               percent but less than 99.99 percent by weight of
                               zinc.
7901.20.00..................  Zinc alloy, unwrought...............................
7902.00.00..................  Zinc, waste and scrap...............................
7903.90.30..................  Zinc, powders.......................................
7907.00.60..................  Zinc, articles (other than for household, table or
                               kitchen use), nesoi.
8001.10.00..................  Tin (other than alloy), unwrought...................
8001.20.00..................  Tin alloy, unwrought................................
8002.00.00..................  Tin, waste and scrap................................
8007.00.50..................  Tin, articles nesoi.................................
8101.10.00..................  Tungsten, powders...................................
8101.97.00..................  Tungsten waste and scrap............................
8103.20.00..................  Tantalum, unwrought (including bars and rods
                               obtained simply by sintering); tantalum powders.
8103.30.00..................  Tantalum waste and scrap............................
8103.91.00..................  Tantalum, crucibles.................................
8103.99.00..................  Tantalum, articles other than crucibles, nesoi......
8104.11.00..................  Magnesium, unwrought, containing at least 99.8
                               percent by weight of magnesium.
8104.19.00..................  Magnesium, unwrought, nesoi.........................
8104.20.00..................  Magnesium, waste and scrap..........................
8104.30.00..................  Magnesium, raspings, turnings and granules graded
                               according to size; magnesium powders.
8104.90.00..................  Magnesium, articles nesoi...........................
8105.20.30..................  Cobalt alloys, unwrought............................
8105.20.60..................  Cobalt (other than alloys), unwrought...............
8105.20.90..................  Cobalt, mattes and other intermediate products of
                               cobalt metallurgy; cobalt powders.
8105.30.00..................  Cobalt waste and scrap..............................
8105.90.00..................  Cobalt, articles thereof nesoi......................
8106.10.00..................  Bismuth (including waste and scrap) and articles
                               thereof, containing more than 99.99 percent of
                               bismuth by weight.
8106.90.00..................  Bismuth (including waste and scrap) and articles
                               thereof, containing 99.99 percent of bismuth or
                               less, nesoi.
8108.20.00..................  Titanium, unwrought; titanium powders...............
8108.30.00..................  Titanium waste and scrap............................
8108.90.30..................  Titanium, articles nesoi............................
8108.90.60..................  Wrought titanium, nesoi.............................
8110.10.00..................  Antimony, unwrought; antimony powders...............
8110.20.00..................  Antimony waste and scrap............................
8110.90.00..................  Articles of antimony, nesoi.........................
8111.00.47..................  Unwrought manganese flake containing at least 99.5
                               percent by weight of manganese.
8111.00.49..................  Unwrought manganese, nesoi..........................
8112.21.00..................  Chromium, unwrought; chromium powders...............
8112.22.00..................  Chromium waste and scrap............................
8112.29.00..................  Articles of chromium, nesoi.........................
8112.41.10..................  Rhenium, waste and scrap............................
8112.41.50..................  Rhenium, unwrought; rhenium powders.................
8112.49.00..................  Rhenium, articles, nesoi............................

[[Page 33883]]

 
8112.59.00..................  Articles of thallium, nesoi.........................
8112.92.10..................  Gallium, unwrought; gallium powders.................
8112.92.30..................  Indium, unwrought; indium powders...................
8112.92.40..................  Niobium (columbium), unwrought; niobium powders.....
8112.92.60..................  Germanium, unwrought................................
8112.92.65..................  Germanium powder, wrought...........................
8112.99.10..................  Germanium nesoi and articles thereof................
8112.99.20..................  Vanadium, nesoi, and articles thereof...............
8112.99.91..................  Articles of gallium, indium, or niobium, nesoi......
8302.10.60..................  Iron or steel, aluminum, or zinc hinges and base      Aircraft.
                               metal parts thereof, not designed for motor
                               vehicles.
8302.10.90..................  Base metal (other than iron or steel or aluminum or   Aircraft.
                               zinc) hinges and base metal parts thereof.
8302.20.00..................  Base metal castors and base metal parts thereof.....  Aircraft.
8302.42.30..................  Iron or steel, aluminum, or zinc mountings, fittings  Aircraft.
                               and similar articles, suitable for furniture, and
                               base metal parts thereof.
8302.42.60..................  Base metal (other than iron or steel or aluminum or   Aircraft.
                               zinc) mountings, fittings and similar articles,
                               suitable for furniture, and base metal parts
                               thereof.
8302.49.40..................  Base metal harness, saddlery or riding-bridle         Aircraft.
                               hardware, not coated or plated with precious metal,
                               and base metal parts thereof.
8302.49.60..................  Iron or steel, aluminum, or zinc, mountings,          Aircraft.
                               fittings and similar articles nesoi, and base metal
                               parts thereof.
8302.49.80..................  Base metal (other than iron or steel or aluminum or   Aircraft.
                               zinc) mountings, fittings and similar articles
                               nesoi, and base metal parts thereof.
8302.60.30..................  Base metal automatic door closers...................  Aircraft.
8307.10.30..................  Iron or steel flexible tubing, with fittings........  Aircraft.
8307.90.30..................  Base metal (other than iron or steel) flexible        Aircraft.
                               tubing, with fittings.
8407.10.00..................  Spark-ignition reciprocating or rotary internal       Aircraft.
                               combustion piston engines for use in aircraft.
8408.90.90..................  Compression-ignition internal-combustion piston       Aircraft.
                               engines, for machinery or equipment, nesoi.
8409.10.00..................  Parts for internal combustion aircraft engines......  Aircraft.
8411.11.40..................  Aircraft turbojets of a thrust not exceeding 25 kN..  Aircraft.
8411.11.80..................  Turbojets of a thrust not exceeding 25 kN, other      Aircraft.
                               than aircraft.
8411.12.40..................  Aircraft turbojets of a thrust exceeding 25 kN......  Aircraft.
8411.12.80..................  Turbojets of a thrust exceeding 25 kN, other than     Aircraft.
                               aircraft.
8411.21.40..................  Aircraft turbopropellers of a power not exceeding     Aircraft.
                               1,100 kW.
8411.21.80..................  Turbopropellers of a power not exceeding 1,100 kW,    Aircraft.
                               other than aircraft.
8411.22.40..................  Aircraft turbopropellers of a power exceeding 1,100   Aircraft.
                               kW.
8411.22.80..................  Turbopropellers of a power exceeding 1,100 kW, other  Aircraft.
                               than aircraft.
8411.81.40..................  Aircraft gas turbines other than turbojets or         Aircraft.
                               turbopropellers, of a power not exceeding 5,000 kW.
8411.82.40..................  Aircraft gas turbines other than turbojets or         Aircraft.
                               turbopropellers, of a power exceeding 5,000 kW.
8411.91.10..................  Cast-iron parts of turbojets or turbopropellers, not  Aircraft.
                               advanced beyond cleaning, machined only for removal
                               of fins, gates, sprues and risers, or to permit
                               location in machinery.
8411.91.90..................  Parts of turbojets or turbopropellers other than      Aircraft.
                               those of subheading 8411.91.10.
8411.99.10..................  Cast-iron parts of gas turbines nesoi, not advanced   Aircraft.
                               beyond cleaning, and machined for removal of fins,
                               gates, sprues and risers.
8411.99.90..................  Parts of gas turbines nesoi, other than those of      Aircraft.
                               subheading 8411.99.10.
8412.10.00..................  Reaction engines other than turbojets...............  Aircraft.
8412.21.00..................  Hydraulic power engines and motors, linear acting     Aircraft.
                               (cylinders).
8412.29.40..................  Hydrojet engines for marine propulsion..............  Aircraft.
8412.29.80..................  Hydraulic power engines and motors, nesoi...........  Aircraft.
8412.31.00..................  Pneumatic power engines and motors, linear acting     Aircraft.
                               (cylinders).
8412.39.00..................  Pneumatic power engines and motors, other than        Aircraft.
                               linear acting.
8412.80.10..................  Spring-operated and weight-operated motors..........  Aircraft.
8412.80.90..................  Engines and motors, nesoi (excluding motors of        Aircraft.
                               heading 8501).
8412.90.90..................  Parts for engines of heading 8412 other than          Aircraft.
                               hydrojet engines for marine propulsion.
8413.19.00..................  Pumps for liquids fitted or designed to be fitted     Aircraft.
                               with a measuring device, nesoi.
8413.20.00..................  Hand pumps other than those of subheading 8413.11 or  Aircraft.
                               8413.19, not fitted with a measuring device.
8413.30.10..................  Fuel-injection pumps for compression-ignition         Aircraft.
                               engines, not fitted with a measuring device.
8413.30.90..................  Fuel, lubricating or cooling medium pumps for         Aircraft.
                               internal-combustion piston engines, not fitted with
                               a measuring device, nesoi.
8413.50.00..................  Reciprocating positive displacement pumps for         Aircraft.
                               liquids, not fitted with a measuring device, nesoi.
8413.60.00..................  Rotary positive displacement pumps for liquids, not   Aircraft.
                               fitted with a measuring device, nesoi.
8413.70.10..................  Stock pumps imported for use with machines for        Aircraft.
                               making cellulosic pulp, paper or paperboard, not
                               fitted with a measuring device.
8413.70.20..................  Centrifugal pumps for liquids, not fitted with a      Aircraft.
                               measuring device, nesoi.
8413.81.00..................  Pumps for liquids, not fitted with a measuring        Aircraft.
                               device, nesoi.
8413.91.10..................  Parts of fuel-injection pumps for compression-        Aircraft.
                               ignition engines.
8413.91.20..................  Parts of stock pumps imported for use with machines   Aircraft.
                               for making cellulosic pulp, paper or paperboard.
8413.91.90..................  Parts of pumps, nesoi...............................  Aircraft.
8414.10.00..................  Vacuum pumps........................................  Aircraft.
8414.20.00..................  Hand-operated or foot-operated air pumps............  Aircraft.
8414.30.40..................  Compressors of a kind used in refrigerating           Aircraft.
                               equipment (including air conditioning) not
                               exceeding \1/4\ horsepower.
8414.30.80..................  Compressors of a kind used in refrigerating           Aircraft.
                               equipment (including air conditioning) exceeding \1/
                               4\ horsepower.
8414.51.30..................  Ceiling fans for permanent installation, with a self- Aircraft.
                               contained electric motor of an output not exceeding
                               125 W.
8414.51.90..................  Table, floor, wall, window or roof fans, with a self- Aircraft.
                               contained electric motor of an output not exceeding
                               125 W.
8414.59.30..................  Turbocharger and supercharger fans..................  Aircraft.

[[Page 33884]]

 
8414.59.65..................  Other fans, nesoi...................................  Aircraft.
8414.80.05..................  Turbocharger and supercharger air compressors.......  Aircraft.
8414.80.16..................  Air compressors, nesoi..............................  Aircraft.
8414.80.20..................  Gas compressors, nesoi..............................  Aircraft.
8414.80.90..................  Air or gas pumps, compressors and fans, nesoi.......  Aircraft.
8414.90.10..................  Parts of fans (including blowers) and ventilating or  Aircraft.
                               recycling hoods.
8414.90.30..................  Stators and rotors of goods of subheading 8414.30...  Aircraft.
8414.90.41..................  Parts of air or gas compressors, nesoi..............  Aircraft.
8414.90.91..................  Parts of air or vacuum pumps, ventilating or          Aircraft.
                               recycling hoods, gas-tight biological safety
                               cabinets.
8415.10.60..................  Window or wall type air conditioning machines, split- Aircraft.
                               system, incorporating a refrigerating unit and
                               valve for reversal of cooling/heat cycle.
8415.10.90..................  Window or wall type air conditioning machines, split- Aircraft.
                               system, nesoi.
8415.81.01..................  Air conditioning machines incorporating a             Aircraft.
                               refrigerating unit and valve for reversal of
                               cooling/heat cycle, nesoi.
8415.82.01..................  Air conditioning machines incorporating a             Aircraft.
                               refrigerating unit, nesoi.
8415.83.00..................  Air conditioning machines not incorporating a         Aircraft.
                               refrigerating unit.
8415.90.40..................  Chassis, chassis bases and other outer cabinets for   Aircraft.
                               air conditioning machines,.
8415.90.80..................  Parts for air conditioning machines, nesoi..........  Aircraft.
8418.10.00..................  Combined refrigerator-freezers, fitted with separate  Aircraft.
                               external doors, electric or other.
8418.30.00..................  Freezers of the chest type, not exceeding 800 liters  Aircraft.
                               capacity, electric or other.
8418.40.00..................  Freezers of the upright type, not exceeding 900       Aircraft.
                               liters capacity, electric or other.
8418.61.01..................  Heat pumps, other than the air-conditioning machines  Aircraft.
                               of heading 8415.
8418.69.01..................  Refrigerating or freezing equipment nesoi...........  Aircraft.
8419.50.10..................  Brazed aluminum plate-fin heat exchangers...........  Aircraft.
8419.50.50..................  Heat exchange units, nesoi..........................  Aircraft.
8419.81.50..................  Cooking stoves, ranges and ovens, other than          Aircraft.
                               microwave, for making hot drinks or for cooking or
                               heating food, not used for domestic purposes.
8419.81.90..................  Machinery and equipment nesoi, for making hot drinks  Aircraft.
                               or for cooking or heating food, not used for
                               domestic purposes.
8419.90.10..................  Parts of instantaneous or storage water heaters.....  Aircraft.
8419.90.20..................  Parts of machinery and plant, for making paper pulp,  Aircraft.
                               paper or paperboard.
8419.90.30..................  Parts of heat exchange units........................  Aircraft.
8419.90.50..................  Parts of molten-salt-cooled acrylic acid reactors,    Aircraft.
                               nesoi; parts of certain medical, surgical or
                               laboratory sterilizers, nesoi.
8419.90.85..................  Parts of electromechanical tools for work in the      Aircraft.
                               hand, with self-contained electric motor, for
                               treatment of materials by change in temperature.
8421.19.00..................  Centrifuges, other than cream separators or clothes   Aircraft.
                               dryers.
8421.21.00..................  Machinery and apparatus for filtering or purifying    Aircraft.
                               water.
8421.23.00..................  Oil or fuel filters for internal combustion engines.  Aircraft.
8421.29.00..................  Filtering or purifying machinery and apparatus for    Aircraft.
                               liquids, nesoi.
8421.31.00..................  Intake air filters for internal combustion engines..  Aircraft.
8421.32.00..................  Catalytic converters; particulate filters for         Aircraft.
                               internal combustion engines.
8421.39.01..................  Filtering or purifying machinery and apparatus for    Aircraft.
                               gases, other than intake air filters or catalytic
                               converters, for internal combustion engines.
8422.40.9181................  Packing or wrapping machinery, nesoi................
8424.10.00..................  Fire extinguishers, whether or not charged..........  Aircraft.
8425.11.00..................  Pulley tackle and hoists other than skip hoists or    Aircraft.
                               hoists used for raising vehicles, powered by
                               electric motor.
8425.19.00..................  Pulley tackle and hoists other than skip hoists or    Aircraft.
                               hoists used for raising vehicles, not powered by
                               electric motor.
8425.31.01..................  Winches nesoi, and capstans, powered by electric      Aircraft.
                               motor.
8425.39.01..................  Winches nesoi, and capstans, not powered by electric  Aircraft.
                               motor.
8425.42.00..................  Hydraulic jacks and hoists, nesoi...................  Aircraft.
8425.49.00..................  Jacks and hoists of a kind used for raising           Aircraft.
                               vehicles, other than hydraulic, nesoi.
8426.99.00..................  Derricks, cranes and other lifting machinery nesoi..  Aircraft.
8428.10.00..................  Passenger or freight elevators other than continuous  Aircraft.
                               action; skip hoists.
8428.20.00..................  Pneumatic elevators and conveyors...................  Aircraft.
8428.33.00..................  Belt type continuous-action elevators and conveyors,  Aircraft.
                               for goods or materials.
8428.39.00..................  Continuous-action elevators and conveyors, for goods  Aircraft.
                               or materials, nesoi.
8428.90.03..................  Machinery for lifting, handling, loading or           Aircraft.
                               unloading, nesoi.
8443.31.00..................  Multifunction units (machines which perform two or    Aircraft.
                               more of the functions of printing, copying or
                               facsimile transmission, capable of connecting to an
                               automatic data processing machine or to a network).
8443.32.10..................  Printer units, capable of connecting to an automatic  Aircraft.
                               data processing machine or to a network.
8443.32.50..................  Single function units other than printer units        Aircraft.
                               (machines which perform only one of the functions
                               of printing, copying or facsimile transmission).
8471.30.01..................  Portable automatic data processing machines, not
                               over 10 kg, consisting at least a central
                               processing unit, keyboard and display.
8471.41.01..................  Automatic data processing machines, nonportable or
                               over 10 kg, comprising in the same housing at least
                               a central processing unit and an input and output
                               unit, whether or not combined.
8471.49.00..................  Automatic data processing machines, nesoi, entered
                               in the form of systems (consisting of at least a
                               central processing unit, and an input and output
                               unit).
8471.50.01..................  Processing units other than those of subheading
                               8471.41 and 8471.49, nesoi.
8471.60.10..................  Combined input/output units for automatic data
                               processing machines not entered with the rest of a
                               system.
8471.60.20..................  Keyboards for automatic data processing machines not
                               entered with the rest of a system.
8471.60.70..................  Input or output units suitable for physical
                               incorporation into an automatic data processing
                               machine or unit thereof, nesoi, not entered with
                               the rest of a system.

[[Page 33885]]

 
8471.60.80..................  Optical scanners and magnetic ink recognition
                               devices not entered with the rest of an automatic
                               data processing system.
8471.60.90..................  Other input or output units of digital automatic
                               data processing machines, nesoi, not entered with
                               the rest of a system.
8471.70.10..................  Automatic data processing magnetic disk drive
                               storage units, disk diameter exceeding 21 cm,
                               without read-write unit assembled therein; read-
                               write units; all not entered with the rest of a
                               system.
8471.70.20..................  Automatic data processing magnetic disk drive
                               storage units, disk diameter exceeding 21 cm, for
                               incorporation into automatic data processing
                               machines or units, not entered with the rest of a
                               system.
8471.70.30..................  Automatic data processing magnetic disk drive
                               storage units, disk diameter exceeding 21 cm,
                               nesoi, not entered with the rest of a system.
8471.70.40..................  Automatic data processing magnetic disk drive
                               storage units, disk diameter not exceeding 21 cm,
                               not assembled in cabinets, without attached
                               external power supply, not entered with the rest of
                               a system.
8471.70.50..................  Automatic data processing magnetic disk drive
                               storage units, disk diameter not exceeding 21 cm,
                               nesoi, not entered with the rest of a system.
8471.70.60..................  Automatic data processing storage units other than
                               magnetic disk, not assembled in cabinets for
                               placing on a table etc., not entered with the rest
                               of a system.
8471.70.90..................  Automatic data processing storage units other than
                               magnetic disk drive units, nesoi, not entered with
                               the rest of a system.
8471.80.10..................  Control or adapter units for automatic data
                               processing machines not entered with rest of a
                               system.
8471.80.40..................  Unit suitable for physical incorporation into
                               automatic data processing machine or unit thereof,
                               not entered with the rest of a system, nesoi.
8471.80.90..................  Other units of automatic data processing machines,
                               not entered with the rest of a system, nesoi.
8471.90.00..................  Magnetic or optical readers, nesoi; machines for
                               transcribing data on data media in coded form and
                               machines for processing such data, nesoi.
8473.30.11..................  Printed circuit assemblies, not incorporating a
                               cathode ray tube, of the machines of 8471.
8473.30.20..................  Parts and accessories of the automatic data
                               processing machines of heading 8471, not
                               incorporating a CRT, parts and accessories of
                               printed circuit assemblies.
8473.30.51..................  Parts and accessories of the automatic data
                               processing machines of heading 8471, not
                               incorporating a CRT, nesoi.
8473.30.91..................  Parts and accessories of the automatic data
                               processing machines of heading 8471, incorporating
                               a CRT, nesoi.
8479.89.10..................  Air humidifiers or dehumidifiers with self-contained  Aircraft.
                               electric motor, other than for domestic purposes.
8479.89.20..................  Floor polishers with self-contained electric motor,   Aircraft.
                               other than for domestic purposes.
8479.89.65..................  Electromechanical appliances with self-contained      Aircraft.
                               electric motor, nesoi.
8479.89.70..................  Carpet sweepers, not electromechanical with self-     Aircraft.
                               contained electric motor.
8479.89.95..................  Other machines and mechanical appliances having       Aircraft.
                               individual functions, not specified or included
                               elsewhere in chapter 84 of the HTSUS, nesoi.
8479.90.41..................  Parts of floor polishers of subheading 8479.89.20;    Aircraft.
                               parts of carpet sweepers.
8479.90.45..................  Parts of trash compactors, frame assemblies.........  Aircraft.
8479.90.55..................  Parts of trash compactors, ram assemblies...........  Aircraft.
8479.90.65..................  Parts of trash compactors, container assemblies.....  Aircraft.
8479.90.75..................  Parts of trash compactors, cabinets or cases........  Aircraft.
8479.90.85..................  Parts of trash compactors, nesoi....................  Aircraft.
8479.90.95..................  Parts of machines and mechanical appliances having    Aircraft.
                               individual functions, not specified or included
                               elsewhere in chapter 84 of the HTSUS, nesoi.
8483.10.10..................  Camshafts and crankshafts for use solely or           Aircraft.
                               principally with spark-ignition internal-combustion
                               piston or rotary engines.
8483.10.30..................  Camshafts and crankshafts nesoi.....................  Aircraft.
8483.10.50..................  Transmission shafts and cranks other than camshafts   Aircraft.
                               and crankshafts.
8483.30.40..................  Bearing housings of the flange, take-up, cartridge    Aircraft.
                               and hanger unit type.
8483.30.80..................  Bearing housings nesoi; plain shaft bearings........  Aircraft.
8483.40.10..................  Torque converters...................................  Aircraft.
8483.40.30..................  Fixed, multiple and variable ratio speed changers,    Aircraft.
                               imported for use with machines for making
                               cellulosic pulp, paper or paperboard.
8483.40.50..................  Fixed, multiple and variable ratio speed changers,    Aircraft.
                               not imported for use with machines for making
                               cellulosic pulp, paper or paperboard.
8483.40.70..................  Speed changers other than fixed, multiple and         Aircraft.
                               variable ratio speed changers.
8483.40.80..................  Ball or roller screws...............................  Aircraft.
8483.40.90..................  Gears and gearing, other than toothed wheels, chain   Aircraft.
                               sprockets and other transmission elements entered
                               separately.
8483.50.40..................  Gray-iron awning or tackle pulleys, not over 6.4 cm   Aircraft.
                               in wheel diameter.
8483.50.60..................  Flywheels, nesoi....................................  Aircraft.
8483.50.90..................  Pulleys, including pulley blocks, nesoi.............  Aircraft.
8483.60.40..................  Clutches and universal joints.......................  Aircraft.
8483.60.80..................  Shaft couplings (other than universal joints).......  Aircraft.
8483.90.10..................  Chain sprockets and parts thereof...................  Aircraft.
8483.90.20..................  Parts of flange, take-up, cartridge and hanger units  Aircraft.
8483.90.30..................  Parts of bearing housings and plain shaft bearings,   Aircraft.
                               nesoi.
8483.90.50..................  Parts of gearing, gear boxes and other speed          Aircraft.
                               changers.
8483.90.80..................  Parts of transmission equipment, nesoi..............  Aircraft.
8484.10.00..................  Gaskets and similar joints of metal sheeting          Aircraft.
                               combined with other material or of two or more
                               layers of metal.
8484.90.00..................  Sets or assortments of gaskets and similar joints     Aircraft.
                               dissimilar in composition, put up in pouches,
                               envelopes or similar packings.
8486.10.00..................  Machines and apparatus for the manufacture of boules
                               or wafers.

[[Page 33886]]

 
8486.20.00..................  Machines and apparatus for the manufacture of
                               semiconductor devices or electronic integrated
                               circuits.
8486.30.00..................  Machines and apparatus for the manufacture of flat
                               panel displays.
8486.40.00..................  Machines and apparatus for the manufacture of masks
                               and reticles and for the assembly of electronic
                               integrated circuits.
8486.90.00..................  Parts and accessories of the machines and apparatus
                               for the manufacture of semiconductor devices,
                               electronic integrated circuits and flat pa.
8501.20.50..................  Universal AC/DC motors of an output exceeding 735 W   Aircraft.
                               but under 746 W.
8501.20.60..................  Universal AC/DC motors of an output of 746 W or more  Aircraft.
8501.31.50..................  DC motors, nesoi, of an output exceeding 735 W but    Aircraft.
                               under 746 W.
8501.31.60..................  DC motors nesoi, of an output of 746 W but not        Aircraft.
                               exceeding 750 W.
8501.31.81..................  DC generators, other than photovoltaic generators,    Aircraft.
                               of an output not exceeding 750 W.
8501.32.20..................  DC motors nesoi, of an output exceeding 750 W but     Aircraft.
                               not exceeding 14.92 kW.
8501.32.55..................  DC motors nesoi, of an output exceeding 14.92 kW but  Aircraft.
                               not exceeding 75 kW, nesoi.
8501.32.61..................  DC generators, other than photovoltaic generators,    Aircraft.
                               of an output exceeding 750 W but not exceeding 75
                               kW.
8501.33.20..................  DC motors nesoi, of an output exceeding 75 kW but     Aircraft.
                               under 149.2 kW.
8501.33.30..................  DC motors, nesoi, 149.2 kW or more but not exceeding  Aircraft.
                               150 kW.
8501.33.61..................  DC generators, other than photovoltaic generators,    Aircraft.
                               of an output exceeding 75 kW but not exceeding 375
                               kW.
8501.34.61..................  DC generators, other than photovoltaic generators,    Aircraft.
                               of an output exceeding 375 kW.
8501.40.50..................  AC motors, nesoi, single-phase, exceeding 735 W but   Aircraft.
                               under 746 W.
8501.40.60..................  AC motors nesoi, single-phase, of 746 W or more.....  Aircraft.
8501.51.50..................  AC motors, nesoi, multi-phase, of an output           Aircraft.
                               exceeding 735 W but under 746 W.
8501.51.60..................  AC motors nesoi, multi-phase of an output of 746 W    Aircraft.
                               but not exceeding 750 W.
8501.52.40..................  AC motors nesoi, multi-phase, of an output exceeding  Aircraft.
                               750 W but not exceeding 14.92 kW.
8501.52.80..................  AC motors nesoi, multi-phase, of an output exceeding  Aircraft.
                               14.92 kW but not exceeding 75 kW.
8501.53.40..................  AC motors nesoi, multi-phase, of an output exceeding  Aircraft.
                               75 kW but under 149.2 kW.
8501.53.60..................  AC motors, nesoi, multi-phase, 149.2 kW or more but   Aircraft.
                               not exceeding 150 kW.
8501.61.01..................  AC generators (alternators), other than photovoltaic  Aircraft.
                               generators, of an output not exceeding 75 kVA.
8501.62.01..................  AC generators (alternators), other than photovoltaic  Aircraft.
                               generators, of an output exceeding 75 kVA but not
                               exceeding 375 kVA.
8501.63.01..................  AC generators (alternators), other than photovoltaic  Aircraft.
                               generators, of an output exceeding 375 kVA but not
                               exceeding 750 kVA.
8501.71.00..................  Photovoltaic DC generators, of an output not          Aircraft.
                               exceeding 50 W.
8501.72.10..................  Photovoltaic DC generators, of an output exceeding    Aircraft.
                               50 W but not exceeding 750 W.
8501.72.20..................  Photovoltaic DC generators, of an output exceeding    Aircraft.
                               750 W but not exceeding 75 kW.
8501.72.30..................  Photovoltaic DC generators, of an output exceeding    Aircraft.
                               75 kW but not exceeding 375 kW.
8501.72.90..................  Photovoltaic DC generators, of an output exceeding    Aircraft.
                               375 kW.
8501.80.10..................  Photovoltaic AC generators, of an output not          Aircraft.
                               exceeding 75 kVA.
8501.80.20..................  Photovoltaic AC generators, of an output exceeding    Aircraft.
                               75 kVA but not exceeding 375 kVA.
8501.80.30..................  Photovoltaic AC generators, of an output exceeding    Aircraft.
                               375 kVA but not exceeding 750 kVA.
8502.11.00..................  Electric generating sets with compression-ignition    Aircraft.
                               internal-combustion piston engines, of an output
                               not exceeding 75 kVA.
8502.12.00..................  Electric generating sets with compression-ignition    Aircraft.
                               internal-combustion piston engines, of an output
                               exceeding 75 kVA but not over 375 kVA.
8502.13.00..................  Electric generating sets with compression-ignition    Aircraft.
                               internal-combustion piston engines, of an output
                               exceeding 375 kVA.
8502.20.00..................  Electric generating sets with spark-ignition          Aircraft.
                               internal-combustion piston engines.
8502.31.00..................  Wind-powered electric generating sets...............  Aircraft.
8502.39.00..................  Electric generating sets, nesoi.....................  Aircraft.
8502.40.00..................  Electric rotary converters..........................  Aircraft.
8504.10.00..................  Ballasts for discharge lamps or tubes...............  Aircraft.
8504.31.20..................  Unrated electrical transformers other than liquid     Aircraft.
                               dielectric, having a power handling capacity not
                               exceeding 1 kVA.
8504.31.40..................  Electrical transformers other than liquid             Aircraft.
                               dielectric, having a power handling capacity less
                               than 1 kVA.
8504.31.60..................  Electrical transformers other than liquid             Aircraft.
                               dielectric, having a power handling capacity of l
                               kVA.
8504.32.00..................  Electrical transformers other than liquid             Aircraft.
                               dielectric, having a power handling capacity
                               exceeding 1 kVA but not exceeding 16 kVA.
8504.33.00..................  Electrical transformers other than liquid             Aircraft.
                               dielectric, having a power handling capacity
                               exceeding 16 kVA but not exceeding 500 kVA.
8504.40.40..................  Electrical speed drive controllers for electric       Aircraft.
                               motors (static converters).
8504.40.60..................  Power supplies suitable for physical incorporation    Aircraft.
                               into automatic data processing machines or units
                               thereof of heading 8471.
8504.40.70..................  Power supplies for automatic data processing          Aircraft.
                               machines or units thereof of heading 8471, nesoi.
8504.40.85..................  Static converters (for example, rectifiers) for       Aircraft.
                               telecommunication apparatus.
8504.40.95..................  Static converters (for example, rectifiers), nesoi..  Aircraft.
8504.50.40..................  Other inductors for power supplies for ADP machines   Aircraft.
                               and units of heading 8471 or for telecommunication
                               apparatus.
8504.50.80..................  Other inductors, nesoi..............................  Aircraft.
8505.11.0070................  Sintered neodymium-iron-boron magnets...............
8507.10.00..................  Lead-acid storage batteries of a kind used for        Aircraft.
                               starting piston engines.
8507.20.80..................  Lead-acid storage batteries other than of a kind      Aircraft.
                               used for starting piston engines or as the primary
                               source of power for electric vehicles.
8507.30.80..................  Nickel-cadmium storage batteries, other than of a     Aircraft.
                               kind used as the primary source of power for
                               electric vehicles.

[[Page 33887]]

 
8507.50.00..................  Nickel-metal hydride batteries......................  Aircraft.
8507.60.00..................  Lithium-ion batteries...............................  Aircraft.
8507.80.82..................  Other storage batteries nesoi, other than of a kind   Aircraft.
                               used as the primary source of power for electric
                               vehicles.
8507.90.40..................  Parts of lead-acid storage batteries, including       Aircraft.
                               separators therefor.
8507.90.80..................  Parts of storage batteries, including separators      Aircraft.
                               therefor, other than parts of lead-acid storage
                               batteries.
8511.10.00..................  Spark plugs.........................................  Aircraft.
8511.20.00..................  Ignition magnetos, magneto-dynamos and magnetic       Aircraft.
                               flywheels.
8511.30.00..................  Distributors and ignition coils.....................  Aircraft.
8511.40.00..................  Starter motors and dual purpose starter-generators..  Aircraft.
8511.50.00..................  Generators nesoi, of a kind used in conjunction with  Aircraft.
                               spark-ignition or compression-ignition internal-
                               combustion engines.
8511.80.20..................  Voltage and voltage-current regulators with cut-out   Aircraft.
                               relays designed for use on 6, 12 or 24 V systems.
8511.80.40..................  Voltage and voltage-current regulators with cut-out   Aircraft.
                               relays other than those designed for use on 6, 12
                               or 24 V systems.
8511.80.60..................  Electrical ignition or starting equipment of a kind   Aircraft.
                               used for spark-ignition internal-combustion or
                               compression-ignition engines, nesoi.
8514.20.40..................  Industrial or laboratory microwave ovens for making   Aircraft.
                               hot drinks or for cooking or heating food.
8516.80.40..................  Electric heating resistors assembled only with        Aircraft.
                               simple insulated former and electrical connectors,
                               used for anti-icing or de-icing.
8516.80.80..................  Electric heating resistors, nesoi...................  Aircraft.
8517.13.00..................  Smartphones for cellular networks or for other
                               wireless of networks.
8517.14.00..................  Other telephones for cellular networks or for other   Aircraft.
                               wireless of networks, other than smartphones.
8517.61.00..................  Base stations.......................................  Aircraft.
8517.62.00..................  Machines for the reception, conversion and
                               transmission or regeneration of voice, images or
                               other data, including switching and routing
                               apparatus.
8517.69.00..................  Other apparatus for transmission or reception of      Aircraft.
                               voice, images or other data, nesoi, but not
                               apparatus of headings 8443, 8525, 8527 or 8528.
8517.71.00..................  Aerials and aerial reflectors of all kinds; parts     Aircraft.
                               suitable for use therewith.
8518.10.40..................  Microphones having a frequency range of 300Hz-3.4kHz  Aircraft.
                               with diameter not over 10 mm and height not
                               exceeding 3 mm, for telecommunication.
8518.10.80..................  Microphones and stands therefor, nesoi..............  Aircraft.
8518.21.00..................  Single loudspeakers, mounted in their enclosures....  Aircraft.
8518.22.00..................  Multiple loudspeakers mounted in the same enclosure.  Aircraft.
8518.29.40..................  Loudspeakers not mounted in their enclosures, with    Aircraft.
                               frequency range of 300Hz to 3.4kHz, with a diameter
                               of not exceeding 50 mm, for telecommunication.
8518.29.80..................  Loudspeakers nesoi, not mounted in their enclosures,  Aircraft.
                               nesoi.
8518.30.10..................  Line telephone handsets.............................  Aircraft.
8518.30.20..................  Headphones, earphones and combined microphone/        Aircraft.
                               speaker sets, other than telephone handsets.
8518.40.10..................  Audio-frequency electric amplifiers for use as        Aircraft.
                               repeaters in line telephony.
8518.40.20..................  Audio-frequency electric amplifiers, other than for   Aircraft.
                               use as repeaters in line telephony.
8518.50.00..................  Electric sound amplifier sets.......................  Aircraft.
8519.81.10..................  Transcribing machines...............................  Aircraft.
8519.81.20..................  Cassette players (non-recording) designed             Aircraft.
                               exclusively for motor-vehicle installation.
8519.81.25..................  Cassette players (non-recording), nesoi.............  Aircraft.
8519.81.30..................  Sound reproducing apparatus nesoi, not incorporating  Aircraft.
                               a sound recording device.
8519.81.41..................  Other sound recording and reproducing apparatus       Aircraft.
                               using magnetic tape, optical media, or
                               semiconductor media.
8519.89.10..................  Record players, other than coin- or token-operated,   Aircraft.
                               without loudspeaker.
8519.89.20..................  Record players, other than coin- or token-operated,   Aircraft.
                               with loudspeakers.
8519.89.30..................  Sound recording and reproducing apparatus, nesoi....  Aircraft.
8521.10.30..................  Color, cartridge or cassette magnetic tape-type       Aircraft.
                               video players, not capable of recording.
8521.10.60..................  Color, cartridge or cassette magnetic tape-type       Aircraft.
                               video recording and reproducing apparatus, nesoi.
8521.10.90..................  Magnetic tape-type video recording or reproducing     Aircraft.
                               apparatus, other than color, cartridge or cassette
                               type.
8522.90.25..................  Assemblies and subassemblies of articles of           Aircraft.
                               subheading 8519.81.41, consisting of 2 or more
                               pieces fastened together, printed circuit
                               assemblies.
8522.90.36..................  Other assemblies and subassemblies of articles of     Aircraft.
                               subheading 8519.81.41, consisting of 2 or more
                               pieces fastened together, other than printed
                               circuit assemblies.
8522.90.45..................  Other parts of telephone answering machines, printed  Aircraft.
                               circuit assemblies.
8522.90.58..................  Other parts of telephone answering machines, other    Aircraft.
                               than printed circuit assemblies.
8522.90.65..................  Parts and accessories of apparatus of headings 8519   Aircraft.
                               or 8521, nesoi, printed circuit assemblies.
8522.90.80..................  Parts and accessories of apparatus of headings 8519   Aircraft.
                               or 8521, nesoi, other than printed circuit
                               assemblies.
8523.51.00..................  Semiconductor media, solid state non-volatile
                               storage devices.
8524.11.10..................  Flat panel display modules of liquid crystals
                               without drivers or control circuits, other than for
                               articles of subheadings 8528.59, 8528.69, 8528.72
                               and 8528.73.
8524.11.90..................  Flat panel display modules of liquid crystals
                               without drivers or control circuits, for articles
                               of subheadings 8528.59, 8528.69, 8528.72 and
                               8528.73.
8524.12.00..................  Flat panel display modules of organic light-emitting
                               diodes without drivers or control circuits.
8524.19.00..................  Other flat panel display modules without drivers or
                               control circuits, nesoi.
8524.91.10..................  Flat panel display modules of liquid crystals with
                               drivers or control circuits, other than for
                               articles of subheadings 8528.59, 8528.69, 8528.72
                               and 8528.73.
8524.91.90..................  Flat panel display modules of liquid crystals with
                               drivers or control circuits, for articles of
                               subheadings 8528.59, 8528.69, 8528.72 and 8528.73.
8524.92.00..................  Flat panel display modules of organic light-emitting
                               diodes with drivers or control circuits.
8524.99.00..................  Other flat panel display modules with drivers or
                               control circuits, nesoi.

[[Page 33888]]

 
8526.10.00..................  Radar apparatus.....................................  Aircraft.
8526.91.00..................  Radio navigational aid apparatus, other than radar..  Aircraft.
8526.92.10..................  Radio remote control apparatus for video game         Aircraft.
                               consoles.
8526.92.50..................  Radio remote control apparatus other than for video   Aircraft.
                               game consoles.
8528.42.00..................  Cathode-ray tube monitors capable of directly         Aircraft.
                               connecting to and designed for use with an
                               automatic data processing machine of heading 8471.
8528.52.00..................  Other monitors capable of directly connecting to and
                               designed for use with an automatic data processing
                               machine of heading 8471.
8528.62.00..................  Projectors capable of directly connecting to and      Aircraft.
                               designed for use with an automatic data processing
                               machine of heading 8471.
8529.10.21..................  Television antennas and antenna reflectors, and       Aircraft.
                               parts suitable for use therewith.
8529.10.40..................  Radar, radio navigational aid and radio remote        Aircraft.
                               control antennas and antenna reflectors, and parts
                               suitable for use therewith.
8529.10.91..................  Other antennas and antenna reflectors of all kinds    Aircraft.
                               and parts, for use.
8529.90.04..................  Tuners (printed circuit assemblies).................  Aircraft.
8529.90.05..................  Printed circuit boards and ceramic substrates and     Aircraft.
                               subassemblies thereof, for color TV, with
                               components listed in additional U.S. note 4 to
                               chapter 85 of the HTSUS.
8529.90.06..................  Printed circuit boards and ceramic substrates and     Aircraft.
                               subassemblies thereof, for color TV, not with
                               components listed in additional U.S. note 4 to
                               chapter 85 of the HTSUS.
8529.90.09..................  Printed circuit assemblies for television cameras...  Aircraft.
8529.90.13..................  Printed circuit assemblies for television apparatus,  Aircraft.
                               nesoi.
8529.90.16..................  Printed circuit assemblies which are subassemblies    Aircraft.
                               of radar, radio navigational aid or remote control
                               apparatus, of 2 or more parts joined together.
8529.90.19..................  Printed circuit assemblies, nesoi, for radar, radio   Aircraft.
                               navigational aid or radio remote control apparatus.
8529.90.21..................  Other printed circuit assemblies suitable for use     Aircraft.
                               solely or principally with the apparatus of
                               headings 8524 to 8528, nesoi.
8529.90.24..................  Transceiver assemblies for the apparatus of           Aircraft.
                               subheading 8526.10, other than printed circuit
                               assemblies.
8529.90.29..................  Tuners for television apparatus, other than printed   Aircraft.
                               circuit assemblies.
8529.90.33..................  Subassemblies with 2 or more printed circuit boards   Aircraft.
                               or ceramic substrates, for color TV, entered with
                               components in additional U.S. note 4 to chapter 85
                               of the HTSUS.
8529.90.36..................  Subassemblies with 2 or more printed circuit boards   Aircraft.
                               or ceramic substrates, for color TV, other.
8529.90.39..................  Parts of television receivers specified in U.S. note  Aircraft.
                               9 to chapter 85 of the HTSUS, other than printed
                               circuit assemblies, nesoi.
8529.90.43..................  Printed circuit boards and ceramic substrates and     Aircraft.
                               subassemblies thereof for color TV, with components
                               listed in additional U.S. note 4 to chapter 85 of
                               the HTSUS.
8529.90.46..................  Combinations of printed circuit boards and ceramic    Aircraft.
                               substrates and subassemblies thereof for color TV,
                               with components listed in additional U.S. note 4 to
                               chapter 85 of the HTSUS.
8529.90.49..................  Combinations of parts of television receivers         Aircraft.
                               specified in U.S. note 10 to chapter 85 of the
                               HTSUS, other than printed circuit assemblies, nesoi.
8529.90.55..................  Flat panel screen assemblies for TV reception         Aircraft.
                               apparatus, color video monitors and video
                               projectors.
8529.90.63..................  Parts of printed circuit assemblies (including face   Aircraft.
                               plates and lock latches) for television cameras.
8529.90.68..................  Parts of printed circuit assemblies (including face   Aircraft.
                               plates and lock latches) for television apparatus
                               other than television cameras.
8529.90.73..................  Parts of printed circuit assemblies (including face   Aircraft.
                               plates and lock latches) for radar, radio
                               navigational aid or radio remote control app..
8529.90.77..................  Parts of printed circuit assemblies (including face   Aircraft.
                               plates and lock latches) for other apparatus of
                               headings 8524 to 8528, nesoi.
8529.90.78..................  Mounted lenses for use in closed circuit television   Aircraft.
                               cameras, separately imported, with or without
                               attached electrical connectors or motors.
8529.90.81..................  Other parts of television cameras, nesoi............  Aircraft.
8529.90.83..................  Other parts of television apparatus (other than       Aircraft.
                               television cameras), nesoi.
8529.90.87..................  Parts suitable for use solely or principally with     Aircraft.
                               the apparatus of 8525 and 8527 (except television
                               apparatus or cellular phones), nesoi.
8529.90.88..................  Subassemblies with 2 or more printed circuit boards   Aircraft.
                               or ceramic substrates, except tuners or convergence
                               assemblies, for color TV, entered with components
                               in additional U.S. note 4 to chapter 85 of the
                               HTSUS.
8529.90.89..................  Subassemblies with 2 or more printed circuit boards   Aircraft.
                               or ceramic substrates, except tuners or convergence
                               assemblies, for color TV, other.
8529.90.93..................  Parts of television apparatus, nesoi................  Aircraft.
8529.90.95..................  Assemblies and subassemblies of radar, radio          Aircraft.
                               navigational aid or remote control apparatus, of 2
                               or more parts joined together, nesoi.
8529.90.97..................  Parts suitable for use solely or principally in       Aircraft.
                               radar, radio navigational aid or radio remote
                               control apparatus, nesoi.
8529.90.98..................  Parts suitable for use solely or principally with     Aircraft.
                               the apparatus of headings 8524 through 8528, nesoi.
8531.10.00..................  Electric burglar or fire alarms and similar           Aircraft.
                               apparatus.
8531.20.00..................  Indicator panels incorporating liquid crystal         Aircraft.
                               devices (LCD's) or light-emitting diodes (LED's).
8531.80.15..................  Doorbells, chimes, buzzers, and similar apparatus...  Aircraft.
8531.80.90..................  Electric sound or visual signaling apparatus, nesoi.  Aircraft.
8536.70.00..................  Connectors for optical fibers, optical fiber bundles  Aircraft.
                               or cables.
8537.10.9170................  Other boards, panels, consoles, desks, cabinets,
                               etc., equipped with apparatus for electric control,
                               for a voltage not exceeding 1,000, nesoi.
8539.10.00..................  Sealed beam lamp units..............................  Aircraft.
8539.51.00..................  Light-emitting diode (LED) modules..................  Aircraft.
8541.10.00..................  Diodes, other than photosensitive or light-emitting
                               diodes.

[[Page 33889]]

 
8541.21.00..................  Transistors, other than photosensitive transistors,
                               with a dissipation rating of less than 1 W.
8541.29.00..................  Transistors, other than photosensitive transistors,
                               with a dissipation rating of 1 W or more.
8541.30.00..................  Thyristors, diacs and triacs, other than
                               photosensitive devices.
8541.41.00..................  Light emitting diodes (LED).........................
8541.49.10..................  Other photosensitive semiconductor diodes, other
                               than light-emitting.
8541.49.70..................  Other photosensitive semiconductor transistors......
8541.49.80..................  Optical coupled isolators...........................
8541.49.95..................  Other photosensitive semiconductor devices, other
                               than diodes or transistors, nesoi.
8541.51.00..................  Other semiconductor-based transducers, other than
                               photosensitive transducers.
8541.59.00..................  Other semiconductor devices, other than
                               semiconductor-based transducers, other than
                               photosensitive devices, nesoi.
8541.90.00..................  Parts of diodes, transistors, similar semiconductor
                               devices, photosensitive semiconductor devices, LEDs
                               and mounted piezoelectric crystals.
8542.31.00..................  Electronic integrated circuits: processors and
                               controllers.
8542.32.00..................  Electronic integrated circuits: memories............
8542.33.00..................  Electronic integrated circuits: amplifiers..........
8542.39.00..................  Electronic integrated circuits: other...............
8542.90.00..................  Parts of electronic integrated circuits and
                               microassemblies.
8543.70.42..................  Flight data recorders...............................  Aircraft.
8543.70.45..................  Other electric synchros and transducers; defrosters   Aircraft.
                               and demisters with electric resistors for Aircraft..
8543.70.60..................  Electrical machines and apparatus nesoi, designed     Aircraft.
                               for connection to telegraphic or telephonic
                               apparatus, instruments or networks.
8543.70.80..................  Microwave amplifiers................................  Aircraft.
8543.70.91..................  Digital signal processing apparatus capable of        Aircraft.
                               connecting to a wired or wireless network for sound
                               mixing.
8543.70.95..................  Touch screens without display capabilities for        Aircraft.
                               incorporation in apparatus having a display.
8543.90.12..................  Parts of physical vapor deposition apparatus of       Aircraft.
                               subheading 8543.70.
8543.90.15..................  Assemblies and subassemblies for flight data          Aircraft.
                               recorders, consisting of 2 or more parts pieces
                               fastened together, printed circuit assemblies.
8543.90.35..................  Assemblies and subassemblies for flight data          Aircraft.
                               recorders, consisting of 2 or more parts pieces
                               fastened together, not printed circuit assemblies.
8543.90.65..................  Printed circuit assemblies of flat panel displays     Aircraft.
                               other than for reception apparatus for television
                               of heading 8528, except for subheadings 8528.52 and
                               8528.62.
8543.90.68..................  Printed circuit assemblies of electrical machines     Aircraft.
                               and apparatus, having individual functions, nesoi.
8543.90.85..................  Parts, nesoi, of flat panel displays other than for   Aircraft.
                               reception apparatus for television of heading 8528,
                               except for subheadings 8528.52 and 8528.62.
8543.90.88..................  Parts (other than printed circuit assemblies) of      Aircraft.
                               electrical machines and apparatus, having
                               individual functions, nesoi.
8544.30.00..................  Insulated ignition wiring sets and other wiring sets  Aircraft.
                               of a kind used in vehicles, aircraft or ships.
8801.00.00..................  Balloons, dirigibles and non-powered aircraft,        Aircraft.
                               gliders and hang gliders.
8802.11.01..................  Helicopters (except unmanned aircraft of heading      Aircraft.
                               8806), with an unladen weight not over 2,000 kg.
8802.12.01..................  Helicopters (except unmanned aircraft of heading      Aircraft.
                               8806), with an unladen weight over 2,000 kg.
8802.20.01..................  Airplanes and other powered aircraft (except          Aircraft.
                               unmanned aircraft of heading 8806), nesoi, with an
                               unladen weight not over 2,000 kg.
8802.30.01..................  Airplanes and other powered aircraft (except          Aircraft.
                               unmanned aircraft of heading 8806), nesoi, with an
                               unladen weight over 2,000 kg but not over 15,000 kg.
8802.40.01..................  Airplanes and other powered aircraft (except          Aircraft.
                               unmanned aircraft of heading 8806), nesoi, with an
                               unladen weight over 15,000 kg.
8805.29.00..................  Ground flying trainers and parts thereof, other than  Aircraft.
                               air combat simulators.
8806.10.00..................  Unmanned aircraft designed for the carriage of        Aircraft.
                               passengers.
8806.21.00..................  Unmanned aircraft, not for the carriage of            Aircraft.
                               passengers, for remote-controlled flight only, max
                               take-off weight not more than 250g.
8806.22.00..................  Unmanned aircraft, not for the carriage of            Aircraft.
                               passengers, for remote-controlled flight only, max
                               take-off weight more than 250g but less than 7kg.
8806.23.00..................  Unmanned aircraft, not for the carriage of            Aircraft.
                               passengers, for remote-controlled flight only, max
                               take-off weight more than 7kg but less than 25kg.
8806.24.00..................  Unmanned aircraft, not for the carriage of            Aircraft.
                               passengers, for remote-controlled flight only, max
                               take-off weight more than 25kg but less than 150 kg.
8806.29.00..................  Unmanned aircraft, not for the carriage of            Aircraft.
                               passengers, for remote-controlled flight only, max
                               take-off weight more than 150 kg.
8806.91.00..................  Unmanned aircraft, not for the carriage of            Aircraft.
                               passengers, not for remote-controlled flight only,
                               nesoi, max take-off weight not more than 250g.
8806.92.00..................  Unmanned aircraft, not for the carriage of            Aircraft.
                               passengers, not for remote-controlled flight only,
                               nesoi, max take-off weight more 250g less than 7kg.
8806.93.00..................  Unmanned aircraft, not for the carriage of            Aircraft.
                               passengers, not for remote-controlled flight only,
                               nesoi, max take-off weight more than 7kg but less
                               than 25kg.
8806.94.00..................  Unmanned aircraft, not for the carriage of            Aircraft.
                               passengers, not for remote-controlled flight only,
                               nesoi, max take-off weight more than 25kg but less
                               than 150 kg.
8806.99.00..................  Unmanned aircraft, not for the carriage of            Aircraft.
                               passengers, not for remote-controlled flight only,
                               nesoi, max take-off weight more than 150 kg.
8807.10.00..................  Parts of aircraft of headings 8801, 8802 or 8806,     Aircraft.
                               propellers and rotors and parts thereof.
8807.20.00..................  Parts of aircraft of headings 8801, 8802 or 8806,     Aircraft.
                               undercarriages and parts thereof.
8807.30.00..................  Parts of aircraft of headings 8801, 8802 or 8806,     Aircraft.
                               for airplanes, helicopters, unmanned aircraft,
                               other than propellers, rotors or undercarriages,
                               nesoi.

[[Page 33890]]

 
8807.90.90..................  Parts of aircraft of headings 8801, 8802 or 8806,     Aircraft.
                               not for airplanes, helicopters or unmanned
                               aircraft, nesoi.
9001.90.40..................  Lenses nesoi, unmounted.............................  Aircraft.
9001.90.50..................  Prisms, unmounted...................................  Aircraft.
9001.90.60..................  Mirrors, unmounted..................................  Aircraft.
9001.90.80..................  Half-tone screens designed for use in engraving or    Aircraft.
                               photographic processes, unmounted.
9001.90.90..................  Optical elements nesoi, unmounted...................  Aircraft.
9002.90.20..................  Prisms, mounted, for optical uses...................  Aircraft.
9002.90.40..................  Mirrors, mounted, for optical uses..................  Aircraft.
9002.90.70..................  Half-tone screens, mounted, designed for use in       Aircraft.
                               engraving or photographic processes.
9002.90.85..................  Mounted lenses suitable for use in, and entered       Aircraft.
                               separately from, closed circuit television cameras,
                               with or without attached electrical connectors or
                               motors.
9002.90.95..................  Mounted optical elements, nesoi; parts and            Aircraft.
                               accessories of mounted optical elements, nesoi.
9014.10.10..................  Optical direction finding compasses.................  Aircraft.
9014.10.60..................  Gyroscopic directing finding compasses, other than    Aircraft.
                               electrical.
9014.10.70..................  Electrical direction finding compasses..............  Aircraft.
9014.10.90..................  Direction finding compasses, other than optical       Aircraft.
                               instruments, gyroscopic compasses or electrical.
9014.20.20..................  Optical instruments and appliances (other than        Aircraft.
                               compasses) for aeronautical or space navigation.
9014.20.40..................  Automatic pilots for aeronautical or space            Aircraft.
                               navigation.
9014.20.60..................  Electrical instruments and appliances (other than     Aircraft.
                               compasses) for aeronautical or space navigation.
9014.20.80..................  Nonelectrical instruments and appliances (other than  Aircraft.
                               compasses) for aeronautical or space navigation.
9014.90.10..................  Parts and accessories of automatic pilots for         Aircraft.
                               aeronautical or space navigation of subheading
                               9014.20.40.
9014.90.20..................  Parts and accessories of nonelectrical instruments    Aircraft.
                               and appliances for aeronautical or space navigation
                               of subheading 9014.20.80.
9014.90.40..................  Parts and accessories of nonelectrical navigational   Aircraft.
                               instruments and appliances nesoi of subheading
                               9014.80.50.
9014.90.60..................  Parts and accessories of navigational instruments     Aircraft.
                               and appliances, nesoi.
9020.00.40..................  Underwater breathing devices designed as a complete   Aircraft.
                               unit to be carried on the person and not requiring
                               attendants, parts and accessories thereof.
9020.00.60..................  Breathing appliances, nesoi, and gas masks, except    Aircraft.
                               protective masks having neither mechanical parts or
                               replaceable filters, parts, accessories thereof.
9025.11.20..................  Clinical thermometers, liquid-filled, for direct      Aircraft.
                               reading, not combined with other instruments.
9025.11.40..................  Liquid-filled thermometers, for direct reading, not   Aircraft.
                               combined with other instruments, other than
                               clinical thermometers.
9025.19.40..................  Pyrometers, not combined with other instruments.....  Aircraft.
9025.19.80..................  Thermometers, for direct reading, not combined with   Aircraft.
                               other instruments, other than liquid-filled
                               thermometers.
9025.80.10..................  Electrical hydrometers and similar floating           Aircraft.
                               instruments, thermometers, pyrometers, barometers,
                               hygrometers, psychometers, and any combination.
9025.80.15..................  Nonelectrical barometers, not combined with other     Aircraft.
                               instruments.
9025.80.20..................  Hydrometers and similar floating instruments,         Aircraft.
                               whether or not incorporating a thermometer, non-
                               recording, other than electrical.
9025.80.35..................  Hygrometers and psychrometers, non-electrical, non-   Aircraft.
                               recording.
9025.80.40..................  Thermographs, barographs, hygrographs and other       Aircraft.
                               recording instruments, other than electrical.
9025.80.50..................  Combinations of thermometers, barometers and similar  Aircraft.
                               temperature and atmosphere measuring and recording
                               instruments, nonelectrical.
9025.90.06..................  Other parts and accessories of hydrometers and like   Aircraft.
                               floating instruments, thermometers, pyrometers,
                               barometers, hygrometers, psychrometers and
                               combinations.
9026.10.20..................  Electrical instruments and apparatus for measuring    Aircraft.
                               or checking the flow or level of liquids.
9026.10.40..................  Flow meters, other than electrical, for measuring or  Aircraft.
                               checking the flow of liquids.
9026.10.60..................  Instruments and apparatus for measuring or checking   Aircraft.
                               the level of liquids, other than flow meters, non-
                               electrical.
9026.20.40..................  Electrical instruments and apparatus for measuring    Aircraft.
                               or checking the pressure of liquids or gases.
9026.20.80..................  Instruments and apparatus, other than electrical,     Aircraft.
                               for measuring or checking the pressure of liquids
                               or gases.
9026.80.20..................  Electrical instruments and apparatus for measuring    Aircraft.
                               or checking variables of liquids or gases, nesoi.
9026.80.40..................  Nonelectrical heat meters incorporating liquid        Aircraft.
                               supply meters, and anemometers.
9026.80.60..................  Nonelectrical instruments and apparatus for           Aircraft.
                               measuring or checking variables of liquids or
                               gases, nesoi.
9026.90.20..................  Parts and accessories of electrical instruments and   Aircraft.
                               apparatus for measuring or checking variables of
                               liquids or gases.
9026.90.40..................  Parts and accessories of nonelectrical flow meters,   Aircraft.
                               heat meters incorporating liquid supply meters and
                               anemometers.
9026.90.60..................  Parts and accessories of nonelectrical instruments    Aircraft.
                               and apparatus for measuring or checking variables
                               of liquids or gases, nesoi.
9029.10.80..................  Revolution counters, production counters, odometers,  Aircraft.
                               pedometers and the like, other than taximeters.
9029.20.40..................  Speedometers and tachometers, other than bicycle      Aircraft.
                               speedometers.
9029.90.80..................  Parts and accessories of revolution counters,         Aircraft.
                               production counters, odometers, pedometers and the
                               like, of speedometers nesoi and tachometers.
9030.10.00..................  Instruments and apparatus for measuring or detecting  Aircraft.
                               ionizing radiations.
9030.20.05..................  Oscilloscopes and oscillographs, specially designed   Aircraft.
                               for telecommunications.
9030.20.10..................  Oscilloscopes and oscillographs, nesoi..............  Aircraft.
9030.31.00..................  Multimeters for measuring or checking electrical      Aircraft.
                               voltage, current, resistance or power, without a
                               recording device.
9030.32.00..................  Multimeters, with a recording device................  Aircraft.
9030.33.34..................  Resistance measuring instruments....................  Aircraft.
9030.33.38..................  Other instruments and apparatus, nesoi, for           Aircraft.
                               measuring or checking electrical voltage, current,
                               resistance or power, without a recording device.

[[Page 33891]]

 
9030.39.01..................  Instruments and apparatus, nesoi, for measuring or    Aircraft.
                               checking electrical voltage, current, resistance or
                               power, with a recording device.
9030.40.00..................  Instruments and apparatus specially designed for      Aircraft.
                               telecommunications.
9030.84.00..................  Instruments and apparatus for measuring, checking or  Aircraft.
                               detecting electrical quantities or ionizing
                               radiations, nesoi, with a recording device.
9030.89.01..................  Instruments and apparatus for measuring, checking or  Aircraft.
                               detecting electrical quantities or ionizing
                               radiations, nesoi, without a recording device.
9030.90.25..................  Printed circuit assemblies for instruments and        Aircraft.
                               apparatus for measuring or detecting ionizing
                               radiation.
9030.90.46..................  Parts and accessories for instruments and apparatus   Aircraft.
                               for measuring or detecting ionizing radiation,
                               nesoi.
9030.90.66..................  Printed circuit assemblies for subheadings and        Aircraft.
                               apparatus of subheadings 9030.40 or 9030.82.
9030.90.68..................  Printed circuit assemblies, nesoi...................  Aircraft.
9030.90.84..................  Parts and accessories for instruments and apparatus   Aircraft.
                               for measuring or checking semiconductor wafers or
                               devices, nesoi.
9030.90.89..................  Parts and accessories for articles of subheadings     Aircraft.
                               9030.20 to 9030.84, nesoi.
9031.80.40..................  Electron beam microscopes fitted with equipment       Aircraft.
                               specifically designed for the handling and
                               transport of semiconductor devices or reticles.
9031.80.80..................  Measuring and checking instruments, appliances and    Aircraft.
                               machines, nesoi.
9031.90.21..................  Parts and accessories of profile projectors.........  Aircraft.
9031.90.45..................  Bases and frames for the optical coordinate-          Aircraft.
                               measuring machines of subheading 9031.49.40.
9031.90.54..................  Parts and accessories of measuring and checking       Aircraft.
                               optical instruments and appliances of subheading
                               9031.41 or 9031.49.70.
9031.90.59..................  Parts and accessories of measuring and checking       Aircraft.
                               optical instruments and appliances, other than test
                               benches or profile projectors, nesoi.
9031.90.70..................  Parts and accessories of articles of subheading       Aircraft.
                               9031.80.40.
9031.90.91..................  Parts and accessories of measuring or checking        Aircraft.
                               instruments, appliances and machines, nesoi.
9032.10.00..................  Automatic thermostats...............................  Aircraft.
9032.20.00..................  Automatic manostats.................................  Aircraft.
9032.81.00..................  Hydraulic and pneumatic automatic regulating or       Aircraft.
                               controlling instruments and apparatus.
9032.89.20..................  Automatic voltage and voltage-current regulators,     Aircraft.
                               designed for use in a 6, 12, or 24 V system.
9032.89.40..................  Automatic voltage and voltage-current regulators,     Aircraft.
                               not designed for use in a 6, 12, or 24 V system.
9032.89.60..................  Automatic regulating or controlling instruments and   Aircraft.
                               apparatus, nesoi.
9032.90.21..................  Parts and accessories of automatic voltage and        Aircraft.
                               voltage-current regulators designed for use in a 6,
                               12, or 24 V system, nesoi.
9032.90.41..................  Parts and accessories of automatic voltage and        Aircraft.
                               voltage-current regulators, not designed for use in
                               a 6, 12, or 24 V system, nesoi.
9032.90.61..................  Parts and accessories for automatic regulating or     Aircraft.
                               controlling instruments and apparatus, nesoi.
9033.00.90..................  Other parts and accessories for machines,             Aircraft.
                               appliances, instruments or apparatus of chapter 90
                               of the HTSUS, nesoi.
9104.00.05..................  Instrument panel clocks for vehicles, air/spacecraft  Aircraft.
                               or vessels, clock movement over 50 mm wide, opto-
                               electronic display only, not over $10 each.
9104.00.10..................  Instrument panel clocks for vehicles, air/spacecraft  Aircraft.
                               or vessels, clock movement over 50 mm wide,
                               electric, not optoelectronic display, not over $10
                               each.
9104.00.20..................  Instrument panel clocks for vehicles, air/spacecraft  Aircraft.
                               or vessels, clock movement over 50 mm wide,
                               nonelectric, valued not over $10 each.
9104.00.25..................  Instrument panel clocks for vehicles, air/spacecraft  Aircraft.
                               or vessels, clock movement over 50 mm wide, opto-
                               electronic display only, over $10 each.
9104.00.30..................  Instrument panel clocks for vehicles, air/spacecraft  Aircraft.
                               or vessels, clock movement over 50 mm wide,
                               electric, not optoelectronic display, over $10 each.
9104.00.40..................  Instrument panel clocks for vehicles, air/spacecraft  Aircraft.
                               or vessels, clock movement over 50 mm wide, non-
                               electric, valued over $10 each.
9104.00.45..................  Instrument panel clocks for vehicles, air/spacecraft  Aircraft.
                               or vessels, watch or clock movement not over 50 mm
                               wide, opto-electronic display only.
9104.00.50..................  Instrument panel clocks for vehicles, air/            Aircraft.
                               spacecraft, vessels, watch or clock movement not
                               over 50 mm wide, electric, not opto-electronic
                               display.
9104.00.60..................  Instrument panel clocks for vehicles, air/spacecraft  Aircraft.
                               or vessels, clock or watch movement not over 50 mm
                               wide, nonelectric.
9109.10.50..................  Clock movements nesoi, complete and assembled,        Aircraft.
                               electrically operated, with opto-electronic display
                               only.
9109.10.60..................  Clock movements nesoi, complete and assembled,        Aircraft.
                               electrically operated, with display nesoi,
                               measuring not over 50 mm in width or diameter.
9109.90.20..................  Clock movements, complete and assembled, not          Aircraft.
                               electrically operated, measuring not over 50 mm in
                               width or diameter.
9401.10.40..................  Seats, of a kind used for aircraft, leather           Aircraft.
                               upholstered.
9401.10.80..................  Seats, of a kind used for aircraft (other than        Aircraft.
                               leather upholstered).
9403.20.00..................  Furniture (other than seats) of metal nesoi, other    Aircraft.
                               than of a kind used in offices.
9403.70.40..................  Furniture (other than seats and other than of         Aircraft.
                               heading 9402) of reinforced or laminated plastics
                               nesoi.
9403.70.80..................  Furniture (other than seats and other than of         Aircraft.
                               heading 9402) of plastics (other than reinforced or
                               laminated) nesoi.
9405.11.40..................  Chandeliers and other electric ceiling or wall        Aircraft.
                               lighting fittings, of brass, designed for use
                               solely with LED sources.
9405.11.60..................  Chandeliers and other electric ceiling or wall        Aircraft.
                               lighting fixtures, of base metal (other than
                               brass), designed for use solely with LED sources.
9405.11.80..................  Chandeliers and other electric ceiling or wall        Aircraft.
                               lighting fixtures, not of base metal, designed for
                               use solely with LED sources.

[[Page 33892]]

 
9405.19.40..................  Chandeliers and other electric ceiling or wall        Aircraft.
                               lighting fittings, of brass, not designed for use
                               solely with LED sources.
9405.19.60..................  Chandeliers and other electric ceiling or wall        Aircraft.
                               lighting fixtures, of base metal (other than
                               brass), not designed for use solely with LED
                               sources.
9405.19.80..................  Chandeliers and other electric ceiling or wall        Aircraft.
                               lighting fixtures, not of base metal, not designed
                               for use solely with LED sources.
9405.61.20..................  Illuminated signs, illuminated name plates and the    Aircraft.
                               like, of brass, designed for use solely with LED
                               sources.
9405.61.40..................  Illuminated signs, illuminated name plates and the    Aircraft.
                               like, of base metal (other than brass), designed
                               for use solely with LED sources.
9405.61.60..................  Illuminated signs, illuminated name plates and the    Aircraft.
                               like, not of base metal, designed for use solely
                               with LED sources.
9405.69.20..................  Illuminated signs, illuminated name plates and the    Aircraft.
                               like, of brass, not designed for use solely with
                               LED sources.
9405.69.40..................  Illuminated signs, illuminated name plates and the    Aircraft.
                               like, of base metal (other than brass), not
                               designed for use solely with LED sources.
9405.69.60..................  Illuminated signs, illuminated name plates and the    Aircraft.
                               like, not of base metal, not designed for use
                               solely with LED sources.
9405.92.00..................  Parts of lamps, lighting fixtures, illuminated signs  Aircraft.
                               and the like, of plastics.
9405.99.20..................  Parts of lamps, lighting fixtures, illuminated signs  Aircraft.
                               and the like, of brass.
9405.99.40..................  Parts of lamps, lighting fixtures, illuminated signs  Aircraft.
                               and the like, not of glass, plastics or brass.
9620.00.50..................  Monopods, bipods, tripods and similar articles of     Aircraft.
                               plastics, nesoi.
9620.00.60..................  Monopods, bipods, tripods and similar articles of     Aircraft.
                               graphite and other carbon, nesoi.
9802.00.40..................  Articles returned to the United States after having   Aircraft.
                               been exported for repairs or alterations made
                               pursuant to a warranty.
9802.00.50..................  Articles returned to the United States after having   Aircraft.
                               been exported for repairs or alterations, other.
9802.00.60..................  Any article of metal (as defined in U.S. note 3(e)    Aircraft.
                               of subchapter II of chapter 98 of the HTSUS)
                               manufactured in the United States or subjected to a
                               process of manufacture in the United States, if
                               exported for further processing, and if the
                               exported article as processed outside the United
                               States, or the article which results from the
                               processing outside the United States, is returned
                               to the United States for further processing.
9802.00.80..................  Articles, except goods of heading 9802.00.91 and      Aircraft.
                               goods imported under provisions of subchapter XIX
                               of this chapter and goods imported under provisions
                               of subchapter XX, assembled abroad in whole or in
                               part of fabricated components, the product of the
                               United States, which (a) were exported in condition
                               ready for assembly without further fabrication, (b)
                               have not lost their physical identity in such
                               articles by change in form, shape or otherwise, and
                               (c) have not been advanced in value or improved in
                               condition abroad except by being assembled and
                               except by operations incidental to the assembly
                               process such as cleaning, lubricating and painting.
9818.00.05..................  Spare parts necessarily installed before first entry  Aircraft.
                               into the United States, upon first entry into the
                               United States of each such spare part purchased in,
                               or imported from, a foreign country.
9818.00.07..................  Other, upon first arrival in any port of the United   Aircraft.
                               States of any vessel described in U.S. note 1 to
                               subchapter XVIII of chapter 98 of the HTSUS.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[FR Doc. 2026-11158 Filed 6-3-26; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 3390-F4-P


</pre></body>
</html>
